Genome enrichment of rare and unknown species from complicated microbiome by nanopore selective sequencing.Rare species are vital members of a microbial community, but retrieving their genomes is difficult due to their low abundance. The ReadUntil (RU) approach allows nanopore devices to sequence specific DNA molecules selectively in real-time, which provides an opportunity for enriching rare species. Despite the robustness of enriching rare species by reducing the sequencing depth of known host sequences, such as the human genome, there is still a gap in RU-based enriching of rare species in environmental samples whose community composition is unclear, and many rare species have poor or incomplete reference genomes in public databases. Therefore, here we present metaRUpore to overcome this challenge. We applied metaRUpore to a thermophilic anaerobic digester (TAD) community and human gut microbial community, it reduced coverage of the high-abundance populations and modestly increased (~2×) the genome coverage of the rare taxa, facilitating successful recovery of near-finished metagenome-assembled genomes (nf-MAGs) of rare species. The simplicity and robustness of the approach make it accessible for labs with moderate computational resources and hold the potential to become the standard practice in future metagenomic sequencing of complicated microbiomes.

DIET-like mutualism of Geobacter and methanogens at specific electrode potential boosts production of both methane and hydrogen from propionate.Direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) has been demonstrated to be an efficient type of mutualism in methanogenesis. However, few studies have reported its presence in mixed microbial communities and its trigger mechanism in the natural environment and engineered systems. Here, we reported DIET-like mutualism of Geobacter and methanogens in the planktonic microbiome for the first time in anaerobic electrochemical digestion (AED) fed with propionate, potentially triggered by excessive cathodic hydrogen (56 times higher than the lowest) under the electrochemical condition. In contrast with model prediction without DIET, the highest current density and hydrogen and methane production were concurrently observed at -0.2 V where an abundance of Geobacter (49%) and extracellular electron transfer genes were identified in the planktonic microbiome via metagenomic analysis. Metagenomic assembly genomes annotated to Geobacter anodireducens were identified alongside two methanogens, Methanothrix harundinacea and Methanosarcina mazei, which were previously identified to participate in DIET. This discovery revealed that DIET-like mutualism could be triggered without external conductive materials, highlighting its potentially ubiquitous presence. Such mutualism simultaneously boosted methane and hydrogen production, thereby demonstrating the potential of AED in engineering applications.

Deciphering different effects of ZVI and NaOH on metabolic characteristics in the process of methanogenesis recovery from VFA suppression.Dosing zero valent iron (ZVI) or sodium hydroxide (NaOH) is the common method of addressing acidification in anaerobic digestion (AD) systems; however, few studies have discussed and compared their effects on microbial metabolism. In the present study, microbial syntrophy and metabolic pathways under ZVI and NaOH regulation are comparatively analyzed through microbial network analysis and metagenomic/metaproteomic analyses. CH yield in the ZVI reactor was 414 mL/gVS, an increase of 23% when compared with that in the reactor with NaOH dosing (336 mL/gVS). The methanogenesis recovery period in the ZVI reactor (37 days) was shorter than that in the NaOH reactor (48 days). Co-occurrence networks indicated that ZVI promoted Methanoculleus and Methanosarcina to establish a complex syntrophic association with SAO bacteria (Syntrophaceticus and Aminobacterium) and syntrophic acetogens (Syntrophomonas), strengthening SAO-hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis (HM) and acetoclastic methanogenesis (AM) pathways simultaneously. Metagenomic analysis showed that the relative abundance of mcrA and fwdB in the ZVI reactor was higher 27% than that in the NaOH reactor. Furthermore, through metaproteomics analysis, much more enzymes related to glucose degradation, bioconversion of butyric acid and pyruvate, conversion of formate and acetate to CO, and production of CH from acetate and CO were significantly upregulated under ZVI regulation than under NaOH regulation (fold change relative to control [FC] > 1.5, p < 0.05). The results of the present study enhance our understanding of methanogenic mechanisms under the regulation of ZVI, providing a theoretical basis for its practical application in AD systems experiencing VFA suppression.

Conductive materials enhance microbial salt-tolerance in anaerobic digestion of food waste: Microbial response and metagenomics analysis.Previous studies have shown that high salinity environments can inhibit anaerobic digestion (AD) of food waste (FW). Finding ways to alleviate salt inhibition is important for the disposal of the growing amount of FW. We selected three common conductive materials (powdered activated carbon, magnetite, and graphite) to understand their performance and individual mechanisms that relieve salinity inhibition. Digester performances and related enzyme parameters were compared. Our data revealed that under normal and low salinity stress conditions, the anaerobic digester ran steady without significant inhibitions. Further, the presence of conductive materials promoted conversion rate of methanogenesis. This promotion effect was highest from magnetite > powdered activated carbon (PAC) > graphite. At 1.5% salinity, PAC and magnetite are beneficial in maintaining high methane production efficiency while control and the graphite added digester acidified and failed rapidly. Additionally, metagenomics and binning were used to analyze the metabolic capacity of the microorganisms. Some species enriched by PAC and magnetite possessed higher cation transport capacities and were to accumulate compatible solutes. PAC and magnetite promoted direct interspecies electron transference (DIET) and syntrophic oxidation of butyrate and propionate. Also, the microorganisms had more energy available to cope with salt inhibition in the PAC and magnetite added digesters. Our data imply that the promotion of Na+/H+ antiporter, K+ uptake, and osmoprotectant synthesis or transport by conductive materials may be crucial for their proliferation in highly stressful environments. These findings will help to understand the mechanisms of alleviate salt inhibition by conductive materials and help to recover methane from high-salinity FW.

Genome-centric metagenomics revealed functional traits in high-solids anaerobic co-digestion of restaurant food waste, household food waste and rice straw.High-solids anaerobic co-digestion (HS-AcoD) of food waste (FW) and other organic wastes is an effective option to improve the biogas production and system stability compared to mono-digestion. However, the clean and sustainable HS-AcoD strategy for FW and associated microbial functional traits have not been well explored. Here, HS-AcoD of restaurant food waste (RFW), household food waste (HFW) and rice straw (RS) were performed. Results showed that the maximum synergy index (SI) of 1.28 were achieved when the volatile solids ratio of RFW, HFW and RS was 0.45:0.45:0.1. HS-AcoD alleviated the acidification process by regulating metabolism associated with hydrolysis and volatile fatty acids formation. The synergistic relationship between syntrophic bacteria and Methanothrix sp., and the enhanced metabolic capacity associated with the acetotrophic and hydrogenotrophic pathways dominated by Methanothrix sp., provided a further explanation of the synergistic mechanism. These findings advance the knowledge about microbial mechanisms underlying the synergistic effect of HS-AcoD.

Metagenomics and network analysis decipher profiles and co-occurrence patterns of bacterial taxa in soils amended with biogas slurry.Microbial community and interaction play crucial roles in ecological functions of soil including nutrient cycling carbon storage, and water maintenance etc. Numerous studies have shown that the application of fertilizers alters bacterial diversity; However, it remains unknown whether and how the continuous application of biogas slurry from anaerobic digestion affects the spatiotemporal heterogeneity of soil layers, complexity and stability of microbial networks, and functions related to C and N cycling. Here, we investigated the bacterial taxa of purple soils treated with swine biogas slurry for four different periods (0, 1, 3 and 8 years) and five different soil depths (20, 40, 60, 80 and 100 cm). The results showed that the application period of biogas slurry and soil depth were two powerful drivers of bacterial diversity and communities. Biogas slurry input resulted in marked changes in the bacterial diversity and composition at the soil depths of 0-60 cm. The relative abundances of Acidobacteriota, Myxococcot, and Nitrospirota decreased, while Actinobacteria, Chloroflexi, and Gemmatimonadota increased with repeated biogas slurry input. The decreasing complexity and stability of the bacterial network with decreasing nodes, links, robustness, and cohesions were found with increasing years of biogas slurry application, suggesting that the bacterial network of soils treated by the biogas slurry became more vulnerability compared with the control. Also, the linkages between the keystone taxa and soil properties were weakened after biogas slurry input, leading to the cooccurrence patterns being less affected by the keystones in the high level of nutrients. Metagenomic analysis confirmed that biogas slurry input increased the relative abundance of liable-C degradation and denitrification genes, which could highly impact the network properties. Overall, our study could give comprehensive understandings on the impacts of biogas slurry amendment on soils, which could be useful for maintaining sustainable agriculture and soil health with liquid fertilization.

Effects of micron-scale zero valent iron on behaviors of antibiotic resistance genes and pathogens in thermophilic anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge.This work investigated the metagenomics-based behavior and risk of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs), and their potential hosts during thermophilic anaerobic digestion (TAD) of waste activated sludge, enhanced by micron-scale zero valent iron (mZVI). Tests were conducted with 0, 25, 100, and 250 mg mZVI/g total solids (TS). Results showed that up to 7.3% and 4.8% decrease in ARGs' abundance and diversity, respectively, were achieved with 100 mg mZVI/g TS. At these conditions, ARGs with health risk in abundance and human pathogenic bacteria (HPB) diversity were also decreased by 8.3% and 3.6%, respectively. Additionally, mZVI reduced abundance of 72 potential pathogenic supercarriers for ARGs with high health risk by 2.5%, 5.0%, and 6.1%, as its dosage increased. Overall, mZVI, especially at 100 mg/g TS, can mitigate antibiotic resistance risk in TAD. These findings are important for better understanding risks of ARGs and their pathogenic hosts in ZVI-enhanced TAD of solid wastes.

Effects of different concentrations of butyrate on microbial community construction and metabolic pathways in anaerobic digestion.Investigating the effect of butyric acid concentration on anaerobic digestion systems in complex systems is important for the efficient degradation of butyric acid and improving the efficiency of anaerobic digestion. In this study, different loadings of butyric acid with 2.8, 3.2, and 3.6 g/(L·d) were added to the anaerobic reactor. At a high organic loading rate of 3.6 g/(L·d), methane was efficiently produced with VBP (Volumetric Biogas Production) of 1.50 L/(L·d) and biogas content between 65% and 75%. VFAs concentration remained below 2000 mg/L. Metagenome sequencing revealed changes in the functional flora within different stages. Methanosarcina, Syntrophomonas, and Lentimicrobium were the main and functional microorganisms. That the relative abundance of methanogens exceeded 35% and methanogenic metabolic pathways were increased indicated the methanogenic capacity of the system significantly improved. The presence of a large number of hydrolytic acid-producing bacteria also indicated the importance of the hydrolytic acid-producing stage in the system.

Monthly dynamics of microbial communities and variation of nitrogen-cycling genes in an industrial-scale expanded granular sludge bed reactor.The expanded granular sludge bed (EGSB) is a major form of anaerobic digestion system during wastewater treatment. Yet, the dynamics of microbial and viral communities and members functioning in nitrogen cycling along with monthly changing physicochemical properties have not been well elucidated.
Here, by collecting the anaerobic activated sludge samples from a continuously operating industrial-scale EGSB reactor, we conducted 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing and metagenome sequencing to reveal the microbial community structure and variation with the ever-changing physicochemical properties along within a year.
We observed a clear monthly variation of microbial community structures, while COD, the ratio of volatile suspended solids (VSS) to total suspended solids (TSS) (VSS/TSS ratio), and temperature were predominant factors in shaping community dissimilarities examined by generalized boosted regression modeling (GBM) analysis. Meanwhile, a significant correlation was found between the changing physicochemical properties and microbial communities ( <0.05). The alpha diversity (Chao1 and Shannon) was significantly higher ( <0.05) in both winter (December, January, and February) and autumn (September, October, and November) with higher organic loading rate (OLR), higher VSS/TSS ratio, and lower temperature, resulting higher biogas production and nutrition removal efficiency. Further, 18 key genes covering nitrate reduction, denitrification, nitrification, and nitrogen fixation pathways were discovered, the total abundance of which was significantly associated with the changing environmental factors ( <0.05). Among these pathways, the dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonia (DNRA) and denitrification had the higher abundance contributed by the top highly abundant genes , , and . The COD, OLR, and temperature were primary factors in affecting DNRA and denitrification by GBM evaluation. Moreover, by metagenome binning, we found the DNRA populations mainly belonged to Proteobacteria, Planctomycetota, and Nitrospirae, while the denitrifying bacteria with complete denitrification performance were all Proteobacteria. Besides, we detected 3,360 non-redundant viral sequences with great novelty, in which , , and  were dominant viral families. Interestingly, viral communities likewise depicted clear monthly variation and had significant associations with the recovered populations ( <0.05).
Our work highlights the monthly variation of microbial and viral communities during the continuous operation of EGSB affected by the predominant changing COD, OLR, and temperature, while DNRA and denitrification pathways dominated in this anaerobic system. The results also provide a theoretical basis for the optimization of the engineered system.

Metagenomic Analysis of Anaerobic Microbial Communities Degrading Short-Chain Fatty Acids as Sole Carbon Sources.Analyzing microbial communities using metagenomes is a powerful approach to understand compositional structures and functional connections in anaerobic digestion (AD) microbiomes. Whereas short-read sequencing approaches based on the Illumina platform result in highly fragmented metagenomes, long-read sequencing leads to more contiguous assemblies. To evaluate the performance of a hybrid approach of these two sequencing approaches we compared the metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) resulting from five AD microbiome samples. The samples were taken from reactors fed with short-chain fatty acids at different feeding regimes (continuous and discontinuous) and organic loading rates (OLR).  showed a high relative abundance at all feeding regimes but was strongly reduced in abundance at higher OLR, when  took over. The bacterial community composition differed strongly between reactors of different feeding regimes and OLRs. However, the functional potential was similar regardless of feeding regime and OLR. The hybrid sequencing approach using Nanopore long-reads and Illumina MiSeq reads improved assembly statistics, including an increase of the N50 value (on average from 32 to 1740 kbp) and an increased length of the longest contig (on average from 94 to 1898 kbp). The hybrid approach also led to a higher share of high-quality MAGs and generated five potentially circular genomes while none were generated using MiSeq-based contigs only. Finally, 27 hybrid MAGs were reconstructed of which 18 represent potentially new species-15 of them bacterial species. During pathway analysis, selected MAGs revealed similar gene patterns of butyrate degradation and might represent new butyrate-degrading bacteria. The demonstrated advantages of adding long reads to metagenomic analyses make the hybrid approach the preferable option when dealing with complex microbiomes.

Metatranscriptomics-guided genome-scale metabolic modeling of microbial communities.Multi-omics data integration via mechanistic models of metabolism is a scalable and flexible framework for exploring biological hypotheses in microbial systems. However, although most microorganisms are unculturable, such multi-omics modeling is limited to isolate microbes or simple synthetic communities. Here, we developed an approach for modeling microbial activity and interactions that leverages the reconstruction of metagenome-assembled genomes and associated genome-centric metatranscriptomes. At its core, we designed a method for condition-specific metabolic modeling of microbial communities through the integration of metatranscriptomic data. Using this approach, we explored the behavior of anaerobic digestion consortia driven by hydrogen availability and human gut microbiota dysbiosis associated with Crohn's disease, identifying condition-dependent amino acid requirements in archaeal species and a reduced short-chain fatty acid exchange network associated with disease, respectively. Our approach can be applied to complex microbial communities, allowing a mechanistic contextualization of multi-omics data on a metagenome scale.

Substance bioconversion, hydrolases activity, and metagenomic analysis to unravel the enhanced biomethanation of corn stover with urea-hydrothermal pretreatment.Corn stover (CS) is a promising feedstock for producing biomethane, that can replace diminishing fossil fuels. However, the recalcitrant structure of CS resulted in low degradability in anaerobic digestion (AD). Numerous studies investigated the pretreatment of CS before AD, but the insight mechanism of biomethanation enhancement is not fully revealed. Therefore, this study advanced low-temperature urea-hydrothermal pretreatment of CS, and the biomethane production, substance bioconversion, hydrolase activity, and metagenomic analysis were conducted to unravel the intrinsic mechanisms of pretreatment for the enhanced biomethanation. The results showed that the pretreatment improved 11.5% of the specific surface area of CS, providing 111.5% higher total volatile fatty acids and 19.9% higher reducing sugars than the control, potentially enriching more anaerobic microorganisms. As a result, the pretreated CS achieved 19.1% higher biomethane yield, 9.1% higher volatile solid removal rate, and 3 days shorter digestion time. The mass balance and microbial community succession analysis indicated that the pretreatment reinforced the biomethane conversion from carbohydrate, which was attributed to the rapid enrichment of hydrolytic acidification bacteria (g__unclassified_o__Bacteroidales) (33.2%) and mixotrophic archaea (Methanosarcina) (72.3%). Meanwhile, the activity of cellulase and xylanase was enhanced up to 23.7% and 66.7%. Metagenomic analysis revealed that the combined pretreatment of CS promoted methanogenesis by enhancing various CAZymes secretion (such as oligosaccharide-degrading enzymes), and functional genes expression of hydrolytic, acidification and acetate-methane pathways at days 1-5. The study indicated that the combined pretreatment could influence microbial composition and function by changing the physicochemical properties of the CS, thereby improving methanogenic performance.

Mechanism insights into enhanced treatment of wasted activated sludge by hydrogen-mediated anaerobic digestion.In the current study, different forms of added gas including H, CO, and mixed gas (V:V = 4:1), as well as different hydrogen partial pressures (0.10, 0.30, and 0.50 atm) were investigated for the influence on anaerobic performance in waste activated sludge (WAS) treatment. The mixed gas significantly improved methane production by over 20%, which positively correlated with the hydrogen partial pressure. However, pure H (0.5 atm) heavily inhibited methane production by 76.5%. Combined with the microbial metabolic activity study, H accelerated the hydrolysis process. Afterward, mixing with CO accelerated H and organic consumption, thus promoting WAS degradation and methane production. Based on the most extra release of organics, the mixed group exerted the superior performance with hydrogen partial pressure at 0.3 atm. The microbial community analysis evidenced that mixed gas enriched proteolytic and homoacetogenic bacteria and hybrid-trophic methanogens. By metagenomics study, hydrolysis, acetogenic, and methanogenesis pathways were all enhanced via the exogenous addition of H and CO, sustainably transforming WAS towards CH. This study discovered the mechanism of the enhanced conversion from WAS to CH by exogenous H and provided a promising approach for WAS reduction and energy recovery.

The role of pretreatments in handling antibiotic resistance genes in anaerobic sludge digestion - A review.Sludge is among the most important reservoirs of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs), which would cause potential environmental risks with the sludge utilization. Currently, anaerobic digestion (AD) is effective to simultaneously realize the resource recovery and pollutants removal, including antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs), and various pretreatments are used to enhance the performance. Recently, plentiful publications have focused on the effects of pretreatment on ARGs removal, but the contradictory results are often obtained, and a comprehensive understanding of the research progress and mechanisms is essential. This study summarizes various pretreatment techniques for improving AD efficiency and ARGs reduction, investigates promising performance in ARGs removal when pretreatments combined with AD, and analyzes the potential mechanisms accounting for ARGs fates. The results showed that although thermal hydrolysis pretreatment showed the best performance in ARGs reduction during the pretreatment process, the significant rebound of ARGs would occur in the subsequent AD process. Conversely, ozone pretreatment and alkali pretreatment had no significant effect on ARGs abundance in the pretreatment stage, but could enhance ARGs removal by 15.6-24.3 % in the subsequent AD. Considering the efficiency and economic effectiveness, free nitrous acid pretreatment would be a promising and feasible option, which could enhance methane yield and ARGs removal by up to 27 % and 74.5 %, respectively. Currently, the factors determining ARGs fates during pretreatment and AD processes included the shift of microbial community, mobile genetic elements (MGEs), and environmental factors. A comprehensive understanding of the relationship between the fate of ARGs and pretreatment technologies could be helpful for systematically evaluating various pretreatments and facilitating the development of emerging and effective pretreatment techniques. Moreover, given the effectiveness, economic efficiency and environmental safety, we called for the applications of modern analysis approaches such as metagenomic and machine learning on the optimization of pretreatment conditions and revealing underlying mechanisms.

Performance of anaerobic digestion of phenol using exogenous hydrogen and granular activated carbon and analysis of microbial community.Anaerobic conversion rate of phenol to methane was low due to its biological toxicity. In this study, the coupling of granular activated carbon (GAC) and exogenous hydrogen (EH) could enhance greatly methane production of phenol anaerobic digestion, and the metagenomic was firstly used to analyze its potential mechanism. The results indicated that a mass of syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria and hydrogen-utilizing methanogens were enriched on the GAC surface, and SAO-HM pathway has become the dominant pathway. The energy transfer analysis implied that the abundance of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) oxidase increased. Furthermore, direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) was formed by promoting type IV e-pili between Methanobacterium and Syntrophus, thereby improving the interspecies electron transfer efficiency. The dominant SAO-HM pathway was induced and DIET was formed, which was the internal mechanism of the coupling of GAC and EH to enhance anaerobic biotransformation of phenol.

Recovery of metagenome-assembled microbial genomes from a full-scale biogas plant of food waste by pacific biosciences high-fidelity sequencing.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is important in treating of food waste, and thousands of metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) have been constructed for the microbiome in AD. However, due to the limitations of the short-read sequencing and assembly technologies, most of these MAGs are grouped from hundreds of short contigs by binning algorithms, and the errors are easily introduced.
In this study, we constructed a total of 60 non-redundant microbial genomes from 64.5 Gb of PacBio high-fidelity (HiFi) long reads, generated from the digestate samples of a full-scale biogas plant fed with food waste. Of the 60 microbial genomes, all genomes have at least one copy of rRNA operons (16S, 23S, and 5S rRNA), 54 have ≥18 types of standard tRNA genes, and 39 are circular complete genomes. In comparison with the published short-read derived MAGs for AD, we found 23 genomes with average nucleotide identity less than 95% to any known MAGs. Besides, our HiFi-derived genomes have much higher average contig N50 size, slightly higher average genome size and lower contamination. GTDB-Tk classification of these genomes revealed two genomes belonging to novel genus and four genomes belonging to novel species, since their 16S rRNA genes have identities lower than 95 and 97% to any known 16S rRNA genes, respectively. Microbial community analysis based on the these assembled genomes reveals the most predominant phylum was  (70.5%), followed by  (6.1%), and  (4.7%), and the most predominant bacterial and archaeal genera were  (69.1%) and  (5.4%), respectively. Analysis of the full-length 16S rRNA genes identified from the HiFi reads gave similar microbial compositions to that derived from the 60 assembled genomes.
High-fidelity sequencing not only generated microbial genomes with obviously improved quality but also recovered a substantial portion of novel genomes missed in previous short-read based studies, and the novel genomes will deepen our understanding of the microbial composition in AD of food waste.

Proteiniphilum Methanothrix harundinacea
and  became dominant acetate utilizers in a methanogenic reactor operated under strong ammonia stress.Microorganisms in anaerobic digestion (AD) are easily affected by ammonia, especially acetoclastic methanogens. Thus, in ammonia-suppressed AD systems, acetate degradation is reported to be carried out mainly by the cooperation of syntrophic acetate oxidizers and hydrogenotrophic methanogens. Previous studies have revealed ammonia inhibition on microbial flora by AD performance, but the effect mechanism of ammonia on microbial metabolism remains poorly understood. In this study, we constructed a mesophilic chemostat fed with acetate as the sole carbon source, gradually increased the total ammonia nitrogen (TAN) concentration from 1 g L to 6 g L, and employed the 16S rRNA gene, metagenomics, and metatranscriptomics analysis to characterize the microbial community structure and metabolic behavior. The results showed that even at the TAN of 6 g L (pH 7.5), the methanogenesis kept normal, the biogas production was approximately 92% of that at TAN of 1 g L and the acetate degradation ratio reached 99%, suggesting the strong TAN tolerance of the microbial community enriched. 16S rRNA gene analysis suggested that the microbial community structure changed along with the TAN concentration.  predominated in methanogens all the time, in which the dominant species was gradually replaced from  to  with the increased TAN. Dominant bacterial species also changed and  showed a significant positive correlation with increased TAN. Meta-omics analysis showed that the absolute dominant microorganisms at TAN of 6 g L were  and , both of which highly expressed genes for anti-oxidative stress.  and the second dominant methanogen  highly expressed both acetate cleavage and CO reduction pathways, suggesting the possibility that these two pathways contributed to methanogenesis together.  and some other species in Firmicutes and Synergistetes were likely acetate oxidizers in the community as they highly expressed genes for syntrophic acetate oxidization, H generation, and electron transfer. These results suggested that  as well as  have strong ammonia tolerance and played critical roles in acetate degradation under ammonia-suppressed conditions. The achievements of the study would contribute to the regulation and management of the AD process.

Effects of ciprofloxacin on biogas production and microbial community composition in anaerobic digestion of swine wastewater in ASBR type reactor.In swine farming, antibiotics are often used to reduce disease and promote animal growth. Part of these compounds is not absorbed by the swine body, being excreted and later reaching the treatment systems, soil, and nearby waterbodies. This research sought to investigate the influence of adding ciprofloxacin (CIP) on the anaerobic digestion of swine wastewater. For that, a bench-scale anaerobic sequential batch reactor (ASBR) was used, with 5 L of working volume in six different phases, with volumetric organic loading rate (VOLR) and CIP dosage variation. According to the results, the optimal VOLR for the reactor was 0.60 ± 0.11 gSV L d, resulting in biogas productivity of 0.51 ± 0.03 L L d. After initial stability, adding substrate with 0.5 mgCIP L resulted in an abrupt drop of 82% in the productivity from the 7 to 11 day of addition, coinciding with volatile acids accumulation. Afterward, the reactor recovered and reached apparent stability, with productivity similar to the previous step without the drug. For 2.5 mgCIP L in the substrate, the biogas productivity at equilibrium was 11.8% lower than in the phases with the same VOLR and 0.0 and 0.5 mgCIP L. Organic matter removals near 80% were achieved for both dosages. The 16S rRNA metagenomic analyses showed an increase in the relative abundance of most of the phyla found, indicating that the dosages used allowed the acclimatization of microorganisms and possibly the compound biodegradation.

Impacts of organic loading rate and hydraulic retention time on organics degradation, interspecies interactions and functional traits in thermophilic anaerobic co-digestion of food waste and sewage sludge.This study provided novel insights into the effects of organic loading rate (OLR) and hydraulic retention time (HRT) on thermophilic anaerobic co-digestion of food waste and sewage sludge. The obtained maximum methane (CH) yield of 328 ± 4 mL CH/g COD at HRT of 15 days (OLR = 5.8 g VS/L/d) was partly attributable to the enhanced acidogenesis, acetogenesis, and methanogenesis phases. The increased key enzyme activities, particularly acetate kinase (improved by 5.2-fold), providing substantial methanogenic substrates for efficient CH production. The functional syntrophs that were related to syntrophic decarboxylation, novel acetate oxidation & reductive acetyl-CoA, and β-oxidation pathways could drive trophic interactions with methanogens. This markedly stimulated hydrogenotrophic Methanoculleus thermophilus metabolism and concomitantly enriched mixotrophic Methanosarcina thermophila. The distinctive cross-feeding interspecies interactions significantly affected the assembly and dynamics of thermophilic consortia. These findings shed light on the physicochemical and microbial mechanisms of HRT- and OLR-dependent enhancement of methanogenesis.

Alterations of oral microbiota and impact on the gut microbiome in type 1 diabetes mellitus revealed by integrated multi-omic analyses.Alterations to the gut microbiome have been linked to multiple chronic diseases. However, the drivers of such changes remain largely unknown. The oral cavity acts as a major route of exposure to exogenous factors including pathogens, and processes therein may affect the communities in the subsequent compartments of the gastrointestinal tract. Here, we perform strain-resolved, integrated meta-genomic, transcriptomic, and proteomic analyses of paired saliva and stool samples collected from 35 individuals from eight families with multiple cases of type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM).
We identified distinct oral microbiota mostly reflecting competition between streptococcal species. More specifically, we found a decreased abundance of the commensal Streptococcus salivarius in the oral cavity of T1DM individuals, which is linked to its apparent competition with the pathobiont Streptococcus mutans. The decrease in S. salivarius in the oral cavity was also associated with its decrease in the gut as well as higher abundances in facultative anaerobes including Enterobacteria. In addition, we found evidence of gut inflammation in T1DM as reflected in the expression profiles of the Enterobacteria as well as in the human gut proteome. Finally, we were able to follow transmitted strain-variants from the oral cavity to the gut at the individual omic levels, highlighting not only the transfer, but also the activity of the transmitted taxa along the gastrointestinal tract.
Alterations of the oral microbiome in the context of T1DM impact the microbial communities in the lower gut, in particular through the reduction of "mouth-to-gut" transfer of Streptococcus salivarius. Our results indicate that the observed oral-cavity-driven gut microbiome changes may contribute towards the inflammatory processes involved in T1DM. Through the integration of multi-omic analyses, we resolve strain-variant "mouth-to-gut" transfer in a disease context. Video Abstract.

Two problems in one shot: Vinasse and glycerol co-digestion in a thermophilic high-rate reactor to improve process stability even at high sulfate concentrations.Anaerobic co-digestion (AcoD) of sugarcane vinasse and glycerol can be profitable because of the destination of two biofuel wastes produced in large quantities in Brazil (ethanol and biodiesel, respectively) and the complementary properties of these substrates. Thus, the objective of this study was to assess the effect of increasing the organic loading rate (OLR) from 2 to 20 kg COD m d on the AcoD of vinasse and glycerol (50 %:50 % on a COD basis) in a thermophilic (55 °C) anaerobic fluidized bed reactor (AFBR). The highest methane production rate was observed at 20 kg COD m d (8.83 L CH d L), while the methane yield remained stable at around 265 NmL CH g COD in all conditions, even when influent vinasse reached 1811 mg SO L (10 kg COD m d). Sulfate was not detected in the effluent. Bacterial genera related to sulfate removal, such as Desulfovibrio and Desulfomicrobium, were observed by means of shotgun metagenomic sequencing at 10 kg COD m d, as well as the acetoclastic archaea Methanosaeta and prevalence of genes encoding enzymes related to acetoclastic methanogenesis. It was concluded that process efficiency and methane production occurred even in higher sulfate concentrations due to glycerol addition.

Key players in syntrophic propionate oxidation revealed by metagenome-assembled genomes from anaerobic digesters bioaugmented with propionic acid enriched microbial consortia.Propionic acid (HPr) is frequently accumulated in anaerobic digesters due to its thermodynamically unfavorable degradation reaction. Here, we identify key players in HPr oxidation and organic overloading recovery from metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) recovered from anaerobic digesters inoculated with HPr-enriched microbial consortia before initiating organic overloading. Two independent HPr-enrichment cultures commonly selected two uncultured microorganisms represented with high relative abundance:  sp002497965 and JABUEY01 sp013314815 (a member of the  family). The relative abundance of JABUEY01 sp013314815 was 60 times higher in bioaugmented bioreactors compared to their unaugmented counterparts after recovery from organic overloading. Genomic analysis of JABUEY01 sp013314815 revealed its metabolic potential for syntrophic propionate degradation when partnered with hydrogenotrophic methanogens (e.g.,  sp002497965)  the methylmalonyl-CoA pathway. Our results identified at least two key species that are responsible for efficient propionate removal and demonstrate their potential applications as microbial cocktails for stable AD operation.

Anaeropeptidivorans aminofermentans
T
The novel oligopeptide utilizing species  M3/9, its role in anaerobic digestion and occurrence as deduced from large-scale fragment recruitment analyses.Research on biogas-producing microbial communities aims at elucidation of correlations and dependencies between the anaerobic digestion (AD) process and the corresponding microbiome composition in order to optimize the performance of the process and the biogas output. Previously,  species were frequently detected in mesophilic to moderately thermophilic biogas reactors. To analyze adaptive genome features of a representative  strain,  M3/9 was isolated from a mesophilic laboratory-scale biogas plant and its genome was sequenced and analyzed in detail. Strain M3/9 possesses a number of genes encoding enzymes for degradation of proteins, oligo- and dipeptides. Moreover, genes encoding enzymes participating in fermentation of amino acids released from peptide hydrolysis were also identified. Based on further findings obtained from metabolic pathway reconstruction, M3/9 was predicted to participate in acidogenesis within the AD process. To understand the genomic diversity between the biogas isolate M3/9 and closely related  type strains, genome sequence comparisons were performed. M3/9 harbors 1,693 strain-specific genes among others encoding different peptidases, a phosphotransferase system (PTS) for sugar uptake, but also proteins involved in extracellular solute binding and import, sporulation and flagellar biosynthesis. In order to determine the occurrence of M3/9 in other environments, large-scale fragment recruitments with the M3/9 genome as a template and publicly available metagenomes representing different environments was performed. The strain was detected in the intestine of mammals, being most abundant in goat feces, occasionally used as a substrate for biogas production.

Rigid bioplastics shape the microbial communities involved in the treatment of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste.While bioplastics are gaining wide interest in replacing conventional plastics, it is necessary to understand whether the treatment of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) as an end-of-life option is compatible with their biodegradation and their possible role in shaping the microbial communities involved in the processes. In the present work, we assessed the microbiological impact of rigid polylactic acid (PLA) and starch-based bioplastics (SBB) spoons on the thermophilic anaerobic digestion and the aerobic composting of OFMSW under real plant conditions. In order to thoroughly evaluate the effect of PLA and SBB on the bacterial, archaeal, and fungal communities during the process, high-throughput sequencing (HTS) technology was carried out. The results suggest that bioplastics shape the communities' structure, especially in the aerobic phase. Distinctive bacterial and fungal sequences were found for SBB compared to the positive control, which showed a more limited diversity.  was especially abundant in composts from bioplastics' treatment, whereas  was found only in compost from PLA and  in that from SBB. This work shed a light on the microbial communities involved in the OFMSW treatment with and without the presence of bioplastics, using a new approach to evaluate this end-of-life option.

Different microplastics distinctively enriched the antibiotic resistance genes in anaerobic sludge digestion through shifting specific hosts and promoting horizontal gene flow.Both microplastics (MPs) and antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) are intensively detected in waste activated sludge (WAS). However, the distinctive impacts of different MPs on ARGs emergence, dissemination, and its potential mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, long-term semi-continuous digesters were performed to examine the profiles of ARGs and antibiotic-resistant bacteria (ARB) in response to two different typical MPs (polyethylene (PE) and polyvinyl chloride (PVC)) in anaerobic sludge digestion. Metagenomic results show that PE- and PVC-MPs increase ARGs abundance by 14.8% and 23.6% in digester, respectively. ARB are also enriched by PE- and PVC-MPs, Acinetobacter sp. and Salmonella sp. are the dominant ARB. Further exploration reveals that PVC-MPs stimulates the acquisition of ARGs by human pathogen bacteria (HPB) and functional microorganisms (FMs), but PE-MPs doesn't. Network analysis shows that more ARGs tend to co-occur with HBP and FMs after MPs exposure, and more importantly, new bacteria are observed to acquire ARGs possibly via horizontal gene flow (HGF) in MPs-stressed digester. The genes involved in the HGF process, including reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, cell membrane permeability, extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) secretion, and ATP synthesis, are also enhanced by MPs, thereby attributing to the promoted ARGs dissemination. These findings offer advanced insights into the distinctive contribution of MPs to fate, host, dissemination of ARGs in anaerobic sludge digestion.

Evaluation of digestate-derived biochar to alleviate ammonia inhibition during long-term anaerobic digestion of food waste.The feasibility of using food waste anaerobic digestate-derived biochar (FWDB) to mitigate ammonia toxicity in an anaerobic digester was evaluated. The optimal conditions for preparing and adding the activated FWDB were explored using response surface experiments, and the long-term effects of adding activated FWDB on digester performance under optimum conditions were verified in semi-continuous experiments. The results showed that the optimal preparation and addition conditions for activated FWDB were pyrolysis temperature of 565 °C, particle size of 0-0.30 mm, and dosage of 15.52 g·L. During the long-term operation of the digesters, when the total ammonia nitrogen (TAN) concentration was higher than 2000 mg·L, the control and experimental digesters showed deteriorated reactor performance. Volatile fatty acids in the control digester accumulated to 20,306 mg·L after the TAN concentration increased to 3391 mg·L, the methane yield decreased to 31 mL·g VS, and the digester experienced process failure. In contrast, the experimental digester with added activated FWDB only suffered a slight short-term accumulation of acetate and a slight decline in methane yield. This may be attributed to the adsorption of NH/NH by activated FWDB, which reduced the TAN concentration in the anaerobic digestion (AD) system and mitigated ammonia toxicity. Microbial analysis and metagenome predictions demonstrated that the community richness, diversity, and evenness, as well as the abundance of acetogens and related key genes (ACSM1, paaF, and acdA) were higher in the experimental digester than in the control digester. This study provides a closed-loop AD enhancement strategy by pyrolysis of digestate and in-situ supplementation into the digester.

Impact of Probiotic Geotrichum candidum QAUGC01 on Health, Productivity, and Gut Microbial Diversity of Dairy Cattle.Gut microbial diversity is a determinant of animal productivity and health. Probiotic supplementation in feed has been known to modulate the gut microbial diversity resulting in better feed utilization and resistance against diseases. The current study was designed to determine the probiotic potential of Geotrichum candidum QAUGC01 (VHDP00000000) in Sahiwal-Friesian crossbred dairy cows and its impact on gut microbial diversity, health, and productivity. To evaluate health and productivity, growth performance, determination of blood parameters, serum biochemistry, feed efficiency, milk yield & composition, and nutrients digestibility was determined and compared between control and experimental groups. Moreover, at the end of the experiment, the gut microbial diversity was evaluated through MiSeq (Illumina) sequencing of bacterial and fungal/yeast DNA in dung samples of both control and experimental cows. Inspite of a significant reduction in dry matter intake the increase in feed efficiency and milk yield was observed in experimental cows with normal hematological and serum biochemical profile. The increase in anaerobic bacterial count and decrease in the shredding of pathogenic flora was observed in experimental cows. Metagenomic analysis revealed Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria and Bacteroidetes to be the four dominating phyla among bacteria and, Ascomycota followed by Basidiomycota and Neocallimastigomycota among the fungal population in both groups. The diversity of the core microbiome revealed high bacterial and Fungal Alpha diversity in the experimental group than in control via the Shannon index. This study provided insights into the safe use of G. candidum as a probiotic, to improve growth performance, health, productivity and gut microbial diversity of dairy cattle.

Enhanced cultured diversity of the mouse gut microbiota enables custom-made synthetic communities.Microbiome research needs comprehensive repositories of cultured bacteria from the intestine of mammalian hosts. We expanded the mouse intestinal bacterial collection (www.dsmz.de/miBC) to 212 strains, all publicly available and taxonomically described. This includes strain-level diversity, small-sized bacteria, and previously undescribed taxa (one family, 10 genera, and 39 species). This collection enabled metagenome-educated prediction of synthetic communities (SYNs) that capture key functional differences between microbiomes, notably identifying communities associated with either resistance or susceptibility to DSS-induced colitis. Additionally, nine species were used to amend the Oligo-Mouse Microbiota (OMM)12 model, yielding the OMM19.1 model. The added strains compensated for phenotype differences between OMM12 and specific pathogen-free mice, including body composition and immune cells in the intestine and associated lymphoid tissues. Ready-to-use OMM stocks are available for future studies. In conclusion, this work improves our knowledge of gut microbiota diversity in mice and enables functional studies via the modular use of isolates.

Absolute quantification and genome-centric analyses elucidate the dynamics of microbial populations in anaerobic digesters.Anaerobic digestion (AD) relies on myriads of functions performed by complex microbial communities in customized settings, thus, a comprehensive investigation on the AD microbiome is central to the fine-tuned control. Most current AD microbiome studies are based on relative abundance, which hinders the interpretation of microbes' dynamics and inter-sample comparisons. Here, we developed an absolute quantification (AQ) approach that integrated cellular spike-ins with metagenomic sequencing to elucidate microbial community variations and population dynamics in four anaerobic digesters. Using this method, 253 microbes were defined as decaying populations with decay rates ranging from -0.05 to -5.85 d, wherein, a population from Flavobacteriaceae family decayed at the highest rates of -3.87 to -5.85 d in four digesters. Meanwhile, 25 microbes demonstrated the growing trend in the AD processes with growth rates ranging from 0.11 to 1.77 d, and genome-centric analysis assigned some of the populations to the functional niches of hydrolysis, short-chain fatty acids metabolism, and methane generation. Additionally, we observed that the specific activity of methanogens was lower in the prolonged digestion stage, and redundancy analysis revealed that the feedstock composition and the digestion duration were the two key parameters in governing the AD microbial compositions.

Effects of ferroferric oxide on propionate methanogenesis in sequencing batch reactors: Microbial community structure and metagenomic analysis.This study investigated the effects of ferroferric oxide (FeO) on propionate methanogenesis in anaerobic sequencing batch reactor (ASBR). Compared to ASBR (without FeO addition), the addition of 10 g/L FeO (ASBR) decreased the maximum methane production rate by 69.6 % when propionate was used as the sole substrate. The addition of FeO reduced the contents of humic substances, riboflavin and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide in extracellular polymeric substances. Therefore, FeO inhibited interspecies electron transfer of microorganisms through electronic mediators. Microbial community analysis revealed that FeO addition increased the relative abundance of acetate oxidizing bacterium (Mesotoga), but decreased the abundance of hydrogenotrophic methanogen (Methanobacterium). Further metagenomics analysis indicated that FeO increased the abundance of acetate oxidation genes and decreased that of hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis, quorum sensing and V/A-type ATPase genes. Thus, FeO reduced propionate methanogenesis during anaerobic digestion. The overall results indicate that FeO addition inhibits methanogenesis for treatment of propionate-contaminated wastewater in ASBR.

Syntrophic Acetate-Oxidizing Microbial Consortia Enriched from Full-Scale Mesophilic Food Waste Anaerobic Digesters Showing High Biodiversity and Functional Redundancy.Syntrophic acetate oxidation (SAO) coupled with hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis (HM) plays a vital role in the anaerobic digestion of protein-rich feedstocks such as food wastes. However, current knowledge of the biodiversity and genetic potential of the involved microbial participants, especially syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria (SAOB), is limited due to the low abundance of these microorganisms and challenges in their isolation. The intent of this study was to enrich and identify potential SAOB. Therefore, we conducted continuous acetate feeding under high ammonia concentrations using two separate inoculum consortia of microorganisms that originated from full-scale mesophilic food waste digesters, which lasted for more than 200 days. Using 16S rRNA gene amplicon and metagenomic analyses, we observed a convergence of the experimental microbial communities during the enrichment regarding taxonomic composition and metabolic functional composition. Stable carbon isotope analyses of biogas indicated that SAO-HM was the dominant methanogenic pathway during the enrichment process. The hydrogenotrophic methanogen  dominated the archaeal community. The enriched SAO community featured high biodiversity and metabolic functional redundancy. By analyzing the metagenome-assembled genomes, the known SAOB Syntrophaceticus schinkii and six uncultured populations were identified to have the genetic potential to perform SAO through the conventional reversed Wood-Ljungdahl pathway, while another six bacteria were found to encode the reversed Wood-Ljungdahl pathway combined with a glycine cleavage system as novel SAOB candidates. These results showed that the food waste anaerobic digesters harbor diverse SAOB and highlighted the importance of the glycine cleavage system for acetate oxidation.  Syntrophic acetate oxidation to CO and H, together with hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis, contributes to much of the carbon flux in the anaerobic digestion of organic wastes, especially at high ammonia concentrations. A deep understanding of the biodiversity, metabolic genetic potential, and ecology of the SAO community can help to improve biomethane production from wastes for clean energy production. Here, we enriched the SAO-HM functional guild obtained from full-scale food waste anaerobic digesters and recorded dynamic changes in community taxonomic composition and functional profiles. By reconstructing the metabolic pathways, diverse known and novel bacterial members were found to have SAO potential via the reversed Wood-Ljungdahl (WL) pathway alone, or via the reversed WL pathway with a glycine cleavage system (WLP-GCS), and those catalyzing WLP-GCS showed higher microbial abundance. This study revealed the biodiversity and metabolic functional redundancy of SAOB in full-scale anaerobic digester systems and provided inspiration for further genome-centric studies.

Mining the landfill soil metagenome for denitrifying methanotrophic taxa and validation of methane oxidation in microcosm.In the present study, the microbial community residing at different depths of the landfill was characterized to assess their roles in serving as a methane sink. Physico-chemical characterization revealed the characteristic signatures of anaerobic degradation of organic matter in the bottom soil (50-60 cm) and, active process of aerobic denitrification in the top soil (0-10 cm). This was also reflected from the higher abundance of bacterial domain in the top soil metagenome represented by dominant phyla Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria which are prime decomposers of organic matter in landfill soils. The multiple fold higher relative abundances of the two most abundant genera; Streptomyces and Intrasporangium in the top soil depicted greater denitrifying taxa in top soil than the bottom soil. Amongst the aerobic methanotrophs, the genera Methylomonas, Methylococcus, Methylocella, and Methylacidiphilum were abundantly found in the top soil metagenome that were essential for oxidizing methane generated in the landfill. On the other hand, the dominance of archaeal domain represented by Methanosarcina and Methanoculleus in the bottom soil highlighted the complete anaerobic digestion of organic components via acetoclasty, carboxydotrophy, hydrogenotrophy, methylotrophy. Functional characterization revealed a higher abundance of methane monooxygenase gene in the top soil and methyl coenzyme M reductase gene in the bottom soil that correlated with the higher relative abundance of aerobic methanotrophs in the top soil while methane generation being the active process in the highly anaerobic bottom soil in the landfill. The activity dependent abundance of endogenous microbial communities in the different zones of the landfill was further validated by microcosm studies in serum bottles which established the ability of the methanotrophic community for methane metabolism in the top soil and their potential to serve as sink for methane. The study provides a better understanding about the methanotrophs in correlation with their endogenous environment, so that these bacteria can be used in resolving the environmental issues related to methane and nitrogen management at landfill site.

Metagenomics insight into bioaugmentation mechanism of Propionibacterium acidipropionici during anaerobic acidification of kitchen waste.In the present study, a biochemical strategy for improving propionic acid production from kitchen waste acidification by bioaugmentation with Propionibacterium acidipropionici (P. acidipropionici) was investigated. When the inoculum of P. acidipropionici was 30% (w/w) of the seeding sludge, the propionic acid production increased by 79.57%. Further, bioaugmentation improved the relative abundance of Firmicute and Actinobacteria. The results of metagenomic analysis further reveal that the ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters and all related pathways of Propanoate metabolism (ko00640) were enriched when P. acidipropionici was added. For Propanoate metabolism, most functional genes involved in the conversion from Glycolysis / Gluconeogenesis (ko00010) to Propanoyl-CoA and conversion from Propanoyl-CoA to propionic acid were enhanced after bioaugmentation with P. acidipropionici, thereby promoting propionic acid production. As such, bioaugmentation with P. acidipropionici was effective in the anaerobic acidification of kitchen waste for propionic acid production.

Analysis of the anaerobic digestion metagenome under environmental stresses stimulating prophage induction.The viral community has the potential to influence the structure of the microbiome and thus the yield of the anaerobic digestion process. However, the virome composition in anaerobic digestion is still under-investigated. A viral induction experiment was conducted on separate batches undergoing a series of DNA-damaging stresses, in order to coerce temperate viruses to enter the lytic cycle.
The sequencing of the metagenome revealed a viral community almost entirely composed of tailed bacteriophages of the order Caudovirales. Following a binning procedure 1,092 viral and 120 prokaryotic genomes were reconstructed, 64 of which included an integrated prophage in their sequence. Clustering of coverage profiles revealed the presence of species, both viral and microbial, sharing similar reactions to shocks. A group of viral genomes, which increase under organic overload and decrease under basic pH, uniquely encode the yopX gene, which is involved in the induction of temperate prophages. Moreover, the in-silico functional analysis revealed an enrichment of sialidases in viral genomes. These genes are associated with tail proteins and, as such, are hypothesised to be involved in the interaction with the host. Archaea registered the most pronounced changes in relation to shocks and featured behaviours not shared with other species. Subsequently, data from 123 different samples of the global anaerobic digestion database was used to determine coverage profiles of host and viral genomes on a broader scale.
Viruses are key components in anaerobic digestion environments, shaping the microbial guilds which drive the methanogenesis process. In turn, environmental conditions are pivotal in shaping the viral community and the rate of induction of temperate viruses. This study provides an initial insight into the complexity of the anaerobic digestion virome and its relation with the microbial community and the diverse environmental parameters. Video Abstract.

Microbial shifts in anaerobic digestion towards phenol inhibition with and without hydrochar as revealed by metagenomic binning.The inhibition of anaerobic digestion (AD) by phenolic compounds is an obstacle to the efficient treatment of organic wastes. Besides, hydrochar produced from hydrothermal liquefaction of biomass has been previously reported to enhance AD. The present study aimed to provide deep insights into the microbial shifts at the species level to phenol (0-1.5 g/L) inhibition in AD of glucose with and without hydrochar by metagenomic analysis. Phenol higher than 1 g/L had severe inhibition on both the amount and rate of methane production in control experiments, while hydrochar significantly enhanced methane production, especially at phenol 1 g/L and 1.5 g/L. From metagenomic analysis, 78 High-quality metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) were obtained. Principal components analysis showed that the microbial communities were shifted when phenol concentration was increased to 0.25 g/L in control experiments and 1 g/L in hydrochar experiments. In control experiments, no MAGs involved in acetogenesis were found at phenol 1.5 g/L and Methanothrix sp.FDU243 was also inhibited. However, hydrochar resulted in the maintenance of several MAGs involved in acetogenesis and Methanothrix sp.FDU243 even at phenol 1.5 g/L, ensuring a persistent methane production. Furthermore, 6 phenol-degrading MAGs were identified, shifting dependent on the concentrations of phenol and the presence of hydrochar.

Upgrade the high-load anaerobic digestion and relieve acid stress through the strategy of side-stream micro-aeration: biochemical performances, microbial response and intrinsic mechanisms.In high-load anaerobic digestion such as in kitchen waste, side-stream micro-aeration (SMA) shows excellent operational performance to direct micro-aeration (DMA). It immediately restores the acidification to stability. Methanogenic performance remained stable when organic load ratios (OLR) was further increased to 5.5 g VS/L. Enhanced enzyme activity, microbial aggregation, and proliferation of bacteria and archaea were observed in SMA. The results indicates that SMA enriched Methanosaeta (relative abundance exceeded 93%) and induced the change of the main methanogenic pathway to acetoclastic methanogenesis. Mechanisms was further explored by using metagenomic analysis, and the results show SMA avoids mass formation of ROS (reactive oxygen species) by cycling the aerated slurry, and retains benefits of trace O on material and energic metabolism, which poses great application potentials and deserves further investigation.

2
Integrating metagenomic binning with flux balance analysis to unravel syntrophies in anaerobic CO methanation.Carbon fixation through biological methanation has emerged as a promising technology to produce renewable energy in the context of the circular economy. The anaerobic digestion microbiome is the fundamental biological system operating biogas upgrading and is paramount in power-to-gas conversion. Carbon dioxide (CO) methanation is frequently performed by microbiota attached to solid supports generating biofilms. Despite the apparent simplicity of the microbial community involved in biogas upgrading, the dynamics behind most of the interspecies interaction remain obscure. To understand the role of the microbial species in CO fixation, the biofilm generated during the biogas upgrading process has been selected as a case study. The present work investigates via genome-centric metagenomics, based on a hybrid Nanopore-Illumina approach the biofilm developed on the diffusion devices of four ex situ biogas upgrading reactors. Moreover, genome-guided metabolic reconstruction and flux balance analysis were used to propose a biological role for the dominant microbes.
The combined microbiome was composed of 59 species, with five being dominant (> 70% of total abundance); the metagenome-assembled genomes representing these species were refined to reach a high level of completeness. Genome-guided metabolic analysis appointed Firmicutes sp. GSMM966 as the main responsible for biofilm formation. Additionally, species interactions were investigated considering their co-occurrence in 134 samples, and in terms of metabolic exchanges through flux balance simulation in a simplified medium. Some of the most abundant species (e.g., Limnochordia sp. GSMM975) were widespread (~ 67% of tested experiments), while others (e.g., Methanothermobacter wolfeii GSMM957) had a scattered distribution. Genome-scale metabolic models of the microbial community were built with boundary conditions taken from the biochemical data and showed the presence of a flexible interaction network mainly based on hydrogen and carbon dioxide uptake and formate exchange.
Our work investigated the interplay between five dominant species within the biofilm and showed their importance in a large spectrum of anaerobic biogas reactor samples. Flux balance analysis provided a deeper insight into the potential syntrophic interaction between species, especially Limnochordia sp. GSMM975 and Methanothermobacter wolfeii GSMM957. Finally, it suggested species interactions to be based on formate and amino acids exchanges. Video Abstract.

Chronic effects of benzalkonium chlorides on short chain fatty acids and methane production in semi-continuous anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge.As an emerging pollutant, benzalkonium chlorides (BACs) potentially enriched in waste activated sludge (WAS). However, the microbial response mechanism under chronic effects of BACs on acidogenesis and methanogenesis in anaerobic digestion (AD) has not been clearly disclosed. This study investigated the AD (by-)products and microbial evolution under low to high BACs concentrations from bioreactor startup to steady running. It was found that BACs can lead to an increase of WAS hydrolysis and fermentation, but a disturbance to acidogenic bacteria also occurred at low BACs concentration. A noticeable inhibition to methanogenesis occurred when BAC concentration was up to 15 mg/g TSS. Metagenomic analysis revealed the key genes involved in acetic acid (HAc) biosynthesis (i.e. phosphate acetyltransferase, PTA), β-oxidation pathway (acetyl-CoA C-acetyltransferase) and propionic acid (HPr) conversion was slightly promoted compared with control. Furthermore, BACs inhibited the acetotrophic methanogenesis (i.e. acetyl-CoA synthetase), especially BAC concentration was up to 15 mg/g TSS, thereby enhanced short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) accumulation. Overall, chronic stimulation of functional microorganisms with increasing concentrations of BACs impact WAS fermentation.

Multivariate insights into enhanced biogas production in thermophilic dry anaerobic co-digestion of food waste with kitchen waste or garden waste: Process properties, microbial communities and metagenomic analyses.Multisubstrate synergetic anaerobic co-digestion can effectively overcome low efficiency of food waste (FW) mono-digestion. This study investigated the effect of supplementing FW with kitchen waste (KW) or garden waste (GW) on thermophilic dry anaerobic co-digestion. FW-KW and FW-GW co-digestion enhanced biogas production by 24.69 % and 44.96 % at organic loading rate (OLR) of 3 g VS L d, and increased OLR tolerance from 3 to 4 g VS L d through mitigating ammonia nitrogen inhibition and volatile fatty acids accumulation. Co-digestion enriched the dominant hydrolytic bacteria Defluviitoga, resulting in an acceleration of substrate hydrolysis. FW-KW co-digestion improved biogas production by increasing gene abundance related to key enzymes in methanogenesis pathways and promoting the conversion of intermediate products into methane. FW-GW co-digestion enhanced biogas production by enriching ABC transporters-associated genes, leading to efficient substrate utilization. This study provides a promising approach for FW treatment with multivariate insights into thermophilic dry anaerobic co-digestion.

Genome-centric metagenomics analysis revealed the metabolic function of abundant microbial communities in thermal hydrolysis-assisted thermophilic anaerobic digesters under propionate stress.The ecological roles of microbial communities and how they interact with each other in thermal hydrolysis process (THP) assisted thermophilic anaerobic digestion (THP-AD) reactors remain largely unknown, especially under propionate stress. Two thermophilic THP-AD reactors had methane yield of 240-248 mL/g VS, but accumulated approximately 2000 mg/L propionate. Genome-centric metagenomics analysis showed that 68 metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) were recovered, 32 MAGs of which were substantially enriched. Firmicutes spp. dominated the enriched microbial community, including hydrolytic/fermentative bacteria and syntrophs. Methanogenic activities were mainly mediated by Methanosarcina sp. and Methanothermobacter spp. In addition to hydrogenotrophic methanogens, Thermodesulfovibrio sp. could also be a vital H scavenger, contributing to maintaining low H partial pressure in the bioreactors. The remarkable accumulation of propionate could be likely attributed to the weak syntrophic propionate-oxidizing activity or its absence. These findings advanced our knowledge about the mutualistic symbiosis of carbon metabolism in thermophilic THP-AD reactors.

Distribution of extracellular amino acids and their potential functions in microbial cross-feeding in anaerobic digestion systems.Anaerobic digestion is a prevalent bioenergy production process relying on a complex network of symbiotic interactions, where the nutrient based cross-feeding is an essential microbial mechanism. Here, the cross-feeding function was assessed by analyzing extracellular polymeric substances-associated amino acids in microbial aggregates collected from 14 lab-scale anaerobic digesters, as well as deciphering their genetically biosynthetic potential by syntrophic bacteria and methanogens. The total concentration of essential amino acids ranged from 1.2 mg/g VSS to 174.0 mg/g VSS. The percentages of glutamic acid (8.5 ∼ 37.6%), lysine (2.7 ∼ 22.6%), alanine (5.6 ∼ 13.2%), and valine (3.0 ∼ 10.4%) to the total amount of detected amino acids were the highest in most samples. Through metagenomics analysis, several investigated syntrophs (i.e., Smithella, Syntrophobacter, Syntrophomonas, and Mesotoga) and methanogens (i.e., Methanothrix and Methanosarcina) were auxotrophies, but the genetic ability of syntrophs and methanogens to synthesize some essential amino acids could be complementary, implying potential cross-feeding partnership.

Potential of biogas residue biochar modified by ferric chloride for the enhancement of anaerobic digestion of food waste.Biogas residue biochar (BRB) and BRB modified by ferric chloride (BRB-FeCl) were applied to promote anaerobic digestion (AD) of food waste (FW), related mechanisms were also proposed in this study. Results indicated BRB-FeCl showed higher specific surface area, more abundant functional groups and impregnate iron than BRB, and they respectively increased 22.50% and 12.79% cumulative methane yields compared with control group because of accelerated volatile fatty acids (VFAs) transformation, which were confirmed by enhanced metabolism of glycolysis, fatty acid degradation and pyruvate. BRB, especially BRB-FeCl facilitated the growth of Syntrophomonas, Methanofollis, Methanoculleus and Methanosarcina, which further promoted the methanogenesis by enhancing the metabolic activities of methanol, dimethylamine and methylamine pathways, thereby causing more metabolically diverse methanogenic pathways. Metagenomics analysis revealed BRB, especially BRB-FeCl promoted the relative abundances of functional genes involved in direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET). Present study explored the enhancement mechanisms and feasibility of BRB-FeCl for AD process.

Semi-continuous mesophilic-thermophilic two-phase anaerobic co-digestion of food waste and spent mushroom substance: Methanogenic performance, microbial, and metagenomic analysis.The methanogenic efficiency and system stability of anaerobic co-digestion of food waste (FW) and spent mushroom substance (SMS) are important for its application. A 90-day semi-continuous study was conducted to compare the co-digestion performance of an ethanologenic-methanogenic two-phase system and an acidogenic-methanogenic system using FW and SMS as substrates. The results showed that the ethanologenic-methanogenic system increased the contents of ethanol and acetate in the hydrolytic acidification phase. Microbial-community analysis showed that ethanologenic-methanogenic system enriched hydrolytic acidifying bacteria and methanogens such as Methanoculleus, resulting in an increase in the average methane yield of methanogenic phase by 1.91-2.43 times at the same organic loading rate (OLR = 3.0-4.0 g-VS·L·d). Metagenomic analysis indicated that the ethanologenic-methanogenic system increased the abundance of enzyme-encoding genes and promoted the degradation of acetate and CO/H, thereby enhancing methanogenic metabolic pathways, compared to the acidogenic-methanogenic system.

Co-occurrence network analysis reveals loss of microbial interactions in anaerobic digester subjected to repeated organic load shocks.Fluctuations in the anaerobic digestion (AD) organic loading rate (OLR) cause shocks to the AD microbiome, which lead to unstable methane productivity. Managing these fluctuations requires a larger digester, which is impractical for community-scale applications, limiting the potential of AD in advancing a circular economy. To allow operation of small-scale AD while managing OLR fluctuations, we need to tackle the issue through elucidation of the microbial community dynamics via 16S rRNA gene sequencing. This study elucidated the interrelation of the AD performance and the dynamics of the microbial interactions within its microbiome in response to repeated high OLR shocks at different frequencies. The OLR shocks were equivalent to 4 times the baseline OLR of 2 g VS/L/d. We found that less frequent organic load shocks result to deterioration of methane productivity. Co-occurrence network analysis shows that this coincides with the breakdown of the microbiome network structure. This suggests loss of microbial interactions necessary in maintaining stable AD. Identification of species influencing the network structure revealed that a species under the genus Anaerovorax has the greatest influence, while orders Spirochaetales and Synergistales represent the greatest number of the influential species. We inferred that the impact imposed by the OLR shocks shifted the microbiome activity towards biochemical pathways that are not contributing to methane production. Establishing a small-scale AD system that permits OLR fluctuations would require developing an AD microbiome resilient to infrequent organic loading shocks.

Metagenomic insights into the influence of mobile genetic elements on ARGs along typical wastewater treatment system on pig farms in China.The wastewater treatment processes (WTP) on pig farms are heavily contaminated by antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and mobile genetic elements (MGEs) play an important role in shaping ARG profiles. Here we first employed metagenomic sequencing to follow the diversities and shifts of ARG associated mobile genetic elements (AAMGEs) including insertion sequences (ISs) and plasmids along the WTP for three pig farms in southeast China. The IS average relative abundance rose from the initial pig feces source to the wastewater storage lagoon (WSL) but decreased in the influent and rose in the effluent of the anaerobic digestor (AD). In contrast, plasmids were eliminated rapidly along this process. These results indicated that the AD reduced plasmid copies while IS abundance increased. We found a great diversity ISs, including IS91, ISNCY, IS630 and IS701, were large contributors to the transfer of multi-drug resistance. In addition, the tetracycline resistance genes co-occurred with a greater diversity of ISs than other ARG classes and this likely contributed to the high abundance of tetracycline resistance genes we found. The transfer of ARGs mediated by MGEs along the WTP of pig farms was a key contributor for the ARGs persistence in the environment of pig farms. Collectively, our findings demonstrated different fates for ISs and plasmids along the WTP for pig farms and suggested that AAMGE monitoring served as an important role in controlling ARGs in pig waste.

Biogas Production Potential of Thermophilic Anaerobic Biodegradation of Organic Waste by a Microbial Consortium Identified with Metagenomics.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a widespread biological process treating organic waste for green energy production. In this study, wheat straw and corn stalks without any harsh preliminary treatment were collected as a renewable source to be employed in a laboratory-scale digester to produce biogas/biomethane. Processes parameters of temperature, pH, total solids, volatile solid, concentration of volatile fatty acids (VFA), and cellulose concentration, were followed. The volume of biogas produced was measured. The impact of organic loading was stated, showing that the process at 55 °C tolerated a higher substrate load, up to 45 g/L. Further substrate increase did not lead to biogas accumulation increase, probably due to inhibition or mass transfer limitations. After a 12-day anaerobic digestion process, cumulative volumes of biogas yields were 4.78 L for 1 L of the bioreactor working volume with substrate loading 30 g/L of wheat straw, 7.39 L for 40 g/L and 8.22 L for 45 g/L. The degree of biodegradation was calculated to be 68.9%, 74% and 72%, respectively. A fast, effective process for biogas production was developed from native wheat straw, with the highest quantity of daily biogas production occurring between day 2 and day 5. Biomethane concentration in the biogas was 60%. An analysis of bacterial diversity by metagenomics revealed that more than one third of bacteria belonged to class  (32.9%), followed by  (21.5%),  (11.2%),  (6.1%), and  (5%). The most prominent genera among them were , , and . Archaeal share was 1.37% of the microflora in the thermophilic bioreactor, as the genera , , , , and  were the most abundant. A knowledge of the microbiome residing in the anaerobic digester can be further used for the development of more effective processes in conjunction with theidentified consortium.

Impacts of food waste to sludge ratios on microbial dynamics and functional traits in thermophilic digesters.A self-stabilizing microbial community lays the foundation of the efficient biochemical reactions of the anaerobic digestion (AD) process. Despite extensive profiling of microbial community dynamics under varying operating parameters, the effects of food waste (FW) to feeding sewage sludge (FSS) ratios on the microbial assembly, functional traits, and syntrophic interspecies interactions in thermophilic microbial consortia remain poorly understood. Here, we investigated the long-term impacts of the FW: FSS ratio on the thermophilic AD microbiome using genome-centric metagenomics. Both the short reads (SRs) assembly, and the iterative hybrid assembly (IHA) of SRs and nanopore long reads (LRs) were used to reconstruct metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) and four microbial clusters were identified, demonstrating different microbial dynamics patterns in response to varying FW:FSS ratios. Cluster C1-C3 were comprised of full functional members with genetic potentials in fulfilling empirical AD biochemical reactions, wherein, syntrophic decarboxylating acetogens could interact with methanogens, and some microbes could be energized by the electron bifurcation mechanism to drive thermodynamics unfavorable reactions. We found the co-existence of both acetogenic and hydrogenotrophic methanogens in the AD microbiome, and they altered their trophic groups to scavenge the methanogenic substrates in ensuring the methane generation in digesters with different FW:FSS ratios. Another interesting observation was that two phylogenetically close Thermotogota species showed a possible strong competition on carbon source inferred by the nearly complete genetic overlap of their relevant pathways.

Deep insights into the anaerobic co-digestion of waste activated sludge with concentrated leachate under different salinity stresses.Treatment of high-salinity organic wastewater (e.g., concentrated leachate) is a major challenge. Anaerobic co-digestion can effectively treat high-salinity organic wastewater and recover energy. In this study, the concentrated landfill leachate and waste activated sludge (WAS) were anaerobic co-digested in the lab-scale continuous stirred tank reactors (CSTR) to understand their co-digestion performance under different salinity stresses. As revealed by the results, when the salinity was low (<10 g/L), the removal ratio of organic matter in the digester was kept at a high level (>91.3%), and the concentration of total volatile fatty acids (TVFAs) was low (<100 mg COD/L), indicating that the digester could operate efficiently and stably. However, when the salinity level was elevated from 10 g/L to 30 g/L, the removal ratio of organic matter in the digester decreased from ~91.3% to ~64.5%, the TVFAs continued to accumulate, the yields of biogas and methane also dropped sharply, and the performance of the digester decreased gradually. The results of microbial community and diversity analysis showed that there is limited adaptability of microbial community to high salinity in such process. Salinity could cause significant changes in the microbial community and diversity, thereby affecting the digestive performance. Metagenomic analysis showed that under high salinity conditions, the content of genes encoding hydrolase and methanogenic enzyme decreased, whereas the pathway of acetotrophic methanogenesis was weakened. Mechanism study showed that with the increase of salinity, the activity of microbial cells decreased, the structure of sludge flocs was damaged more significantly, and the extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) secreted by microbe increased continuously, which was used to resist the toxic effects of salinity stresses on microorganisms. The results of this study could provide certain theoretical guidance for anaerobic digestion under salinity stresses.

Effects of Stepwise Temperature Shifts in Anaerobic Digestion for Treating Municipal Wastewater Sludge: A Genomic Study.In wastewater treatment plants (WWTP), anaerobic digester (AD) units are commonly operated under mesophilic and thermophilic conditions. In some cases, during the dry season, maintaining a stable temperature in the digester requires additional power to operate a conditioning system. Without proper conditioning systems, methanogens are vulnerable to temperature shifts. This study investigated the effects of temperature shifts on CH gas production and microbial diversity during anaerobic digestion of anaerobic sewage sludge using a metagenomic approach. The research was conducted in lab-scale AD under stepwise upshifted temperature from 42 to 48 °C. The results showed that significant methanogen population reduction during the temperature shift affected the CH production. With 70 days of incubation each, CH production decreased from 4.55 L·g-chemical oxygen demand (COD) at 42 °C with methanogen/total population (M·TP) ratio of 0.041 to 1.52 L·g COD (M·TP ratio 0.027) and then to 0.94 L·g COD ( M·TP ratio 0.026) after the temperature was shifted to 45 °C and 48 °C, respectively.  was the most prevalent methanogen during the thermal change. This finding suggests that the  genus was a thermotolerant archaea. ,  and  were bacterial genera and grew well in shifted-up temperatures, implying heat-resistant characteristics.

Roles of Fe-C amendment on sulfate-containing pharmaceutical wastewater anaerobic treatment: Microbial community and sulfur metabolism.The effects of multiple two-phase anaerobic treatment involving acidification coupling Fe-C on sulfate-containing chemical synthesis-based pharmaceutical wastewater treatment were investigated. Fe-C was added as a filler with 25% vol. to acidogenic reactors for semi-continuous operation. The results suggested that Fe-C amendment promoted sulfate removal efficiency by 47.5% and shortened the reaction time by 50% in the acidogenic phase. With mitigation of sulfate inhibition, SCOD removal efficiency and methane production were further increased by 24.6% and 398% compared to direct raw wastewater anaerobic digestion, respectively, in methanogenic phase. The results of sulfate removal kinetics confirmed a 150% increase of removal rate in acidogenic phase. However, the apparent kinetic microbial sulfate removal constant without Fe-C amendment was maintained at approximately 0.06 h. The Fe-C amendment not only increased the relative abundance of Methanothrix and Desulfovibrio for sulfate reduction but also enriched unclassified_p__Chloroflexi and unclassified_c__Deltaproteobacteria for acidification. Metagenomic results indicated that Fe-C enhanced dissimilatory sulfate reduction and PAPS synthesis of assimilatory step. The hydrogen sulfide production through the 3-mercaptopyruvate to pyruvate pathways was also enhanced. Butyrate-oxidizing genes were increased synchronously to convert butyrate to acetate.

Enhanced anaerobic digestion of post-hydrothermal liquefaction wastewater: Bio-methane production, carbon distribution and microbial metabolism.Hydrothermal liquefaction (HTL) is a cost-effective and environment-friendly technology for using biomass to produce bio-crude oil. The critical challenge of HTL is its complicated aqueous product containing high concentrations of organics and diverse toxicants. This paper reports the continuous anaerobic digestion of raw and zeolite-adsorbed Chlorella HTL wastewater using up-flow anaerobic sludge bed reactors. The bio-methane production capacity, total carbon distribution and microbial response were investigated. The anaerobic process was severely suppressed when more than 20% raw wastewater was fed; while it showed essentially improved performance till 60% pre-treated wastewater was added. Produced methane contained 17.3% of the total carbon in feedstock, which was comparable with the value (16.7%) when 25% of raw wastewater was added. The metagenomic analysis revealed distinct microbial community structures in different stages and feedstock shifts. The abundance of functional genes was consistent with anaerobic digester performance.

Meta-Omics-Supervised Characterization of Respiration Activities Associated with Microbial Immigrants in Anaerobic Sludge Digesters.Immigration has been recently recognized as an important ecological process that affects the microbial community structure in diverse ecosystems. However, the fate of microbial immigrants in the new environment and their involvement in the local biochemical network remain unclear. In this study, we performed meta-omics-supervised characterization of immigrants' activities in anaerobic sludge digesters. Metagenomic analyses revealed that immigrants from the feed sludge accounted for the majority of populations capable of anaerobic respiration in a digester. Electron acceptors that were predicted to be respired, including nitrate, nitrite, sulfate, and elemental sulfur, were added to digester sludge in batch tests. Consumption of up to 91% of the added electron acceptors was observed within the experiment period. 16S rRNA sequencing detected populations that were stimulated by the electron acceptors, largely overlapping with respiration-capable immigrants identified by metagenomic analysis. Metatranscriptomic analysis of the batch tests provided additional evidence for upregulated expression of respiration genes and concomitant suppressed expression of methanogenesis. Anaerobic respiration activity was further evaluated in full-scale digesters in nine wastewater treatment plants. Although nitrate and sulfate respiration were ubiquitous, the expression level of respiration genes was generally 2-3 orders of magnitude lower than the expression of methanogenesis in most digesters, suggesting marginal ecological roles by immigrants in full-scale digester ecosystems.

A comprehensive analysis of evolution and underlying connections of water research themes in the 21st century.This work aimed to reflect the advancements in water-related science, technology, and policy and shed light on future research opportunities related to water through a systematic overview of Water Research articles published in the first 21.5 years of the 21st century. Specific bibliometric analyses were performed to i) reveal the temporal and spatial trends of water-related research themes and ii) identify the underlying connections between research topics. The results showed that while top topics including wastewater (treatment), drinking water, adsorption, model, biofilm, and bioremediation remained constantly researched, there were clear shifts in topics over the years, leading to the identification of trending-up and emerging research topics. Compared to the first decade of the 21st century, the second decade not only experienced significant uptrends of disinfection by-products, anaerobic digestion, membrane bioreactor, advanced oxidation processes, and pharmaceuticals but also witnessed the emerging popularity of PFAS, anammox, micropollutants, emerging contaminants, desalination, waste activated sludge, microbial community, forward osmosis, antibiotic resistance genes, resource recovery, and transformation products. On top of the temporal evolution, distinct spatial evolution existed in water-related research topics. Microplastics and Covid-19 causing global concerns were hot topics detected, while metagenomics and machine learning were two technical approaches emerging in recent years. These consistently popular, trending-up and emerging research topics would most likely attract continuous/increasing research input and therefore constitute a major part of the prospective water-related research publications.

Tylosin in anaerobic reactors: degradation kinetics, effects on methane production and on the microbial community.Tylosin eliminated in animal waste, during therapeutic treatment, can be efficiently removed in anaerobic systems. The present study investigated the influence of tylosin concentration and assessed its degradation kinetics and the microorganisms involved in each stage of its anaerobic digestion (hydrolysis/acidogenesis; acetogenesis; methanogenesis). The results showed a stimulating effect on methane production with increasing tylosin concentration in the poultry litter up to 80 mg kg tylosin (232.9 NL CH kg SV). As for tylosin degradation, greater removal of antibiotics was observed in the methanogenic phase (88%), followed by acetogenic (84%) and hydrolytic/acidogenic (76%) phases. The higher rate of tylosin degradation obtained in the methanogenic step, is mainly related to the co-metabolic effect exerted by the presence of acetate and its degradation by acetoclastic methanogens. Indeed, metagenomic analyses suggested a syntrophic action between archaea of ​​the genus Methanobacterium, and bacteria such as Clostridium and Flexilinea, which seemed decisive for tylosin degradation.

Physico-Chemical and Metagenomic Profile Analyses of Animal Manures Routinely Used as Inocula in Anaerobic Digestion for Biogas Production.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of organic waste is considered a sustainable solution to energy shortage and waste management challenges. The process is facilitated by complex communities of micro-organisms, yet most wastes do not have these and thus need microbial inoculation using animal manures to initiate the process. However, the degradation efficiency and methane yield achieved in using different inocula vary due to their different microbial diversities. This study used metagenomics tools to compare the autochthonous microbial composition of cow, pig, chicken, and horse manures commonly used for biogas production. Cows exhibited the highest carbon utilisation (>30%) and showed a carbon to nitrogen ratio (C/N) favourable for microbial growth. Pigs showed the least nitrogen utilisation (<3%) which explains their low C/N whilst horses showed the highest nitrogen utilisation (>40%), which explains its high C/N above the optimal range of 20−30 for efficient AD. Manures from animals with similar gastrointestinal tract (GIT) physiologies were observed to largely harbour similar microbial communities. Conversely, some samples from animals with different GITs also shared common microbial communities plausibly because of similar diets and rearing conditions. Insights from this study will lay a foundation upon which in-depth studies of AD metabolic pathways and strategies to boost methane production through efficient catalysis can be derived.

Polyethylene terephthalate microplastic fibers increase the release of extracellular antibiotic resistance genes during sewage sludge anaerobic digestion.Microplastic fibers (MFs), as the most frequently detected microplastic shape in sewage sludge, have posed emerging concern for sludge treatment and disposal. However, the effect of MFs on antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs), especially extracellular ARGs (eARGs) during sludge treatment remains far from explicit. Therefore, this study investigated the potential impact of MFs on eARGs during sludge anaerobic digestion (AD), a commonly used sludge treatment method, through long-term operation. The qPCR results showed that both absolute and relative abundances of eARGs increased with the MFs exposure during sludge AD. The average absolute and relative abundances of eight tested eARGs in the AD reactor with the highest MFs dosage (170 items/gTS) were 1.70 and 2.15 times higher than those in the control AD reactor. The metagenomics results further comfirmed the increase of eARGs abundance during sludge anaerobic digestion after MFs exposure and the enhancement did not show significant selectivity. The identification of the potential hosts of eARGs suggested the host numbers of eARGs also increased with MFs exposure, which may suggest enhanced horizonal transformation as a result of increased eARGs. Further exploring the mechansims showed that the genes involved in type IV secretion system was upregulated after MFs exposure, suggesting the active release of eARGs was enhanced with MFs exposure. In contrast, the MFs may not affect the passive release of eARGs as its impact on cell membrance damage was insignificant. The enhanced eARGs in sludge AD process may further accelerate the transport of ARGs in environment, which should be considered during sludge treatment and disposal.

Metagenomic insights into direct interspecies electron transfer and quorum sensing in blackwater anaerobic digestion reactors supplemented with granular activated carbon.The addition of granular activated carbon (GAC) enhanced the performance of up-flow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor treating blackwater at 35 °C. DNA were extracted from the sludge and biofilms attached to GAC and submitted for shotgun sequencing. In addition, the acyl-homoserine lactones (AHLs) were quantified. Diverse partners for direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) were enriched in the sludge or biofilm (GAC-biofilm) of GAC amended UASB. Pedosphaera parvula, Syntrophus aciditrophicus and Syntrophorhabus aromaticivorans were dominant syntrophs. The analysis for type IV pilus assembly genes further suggested DIET may be functioned through GAC for GAC-biofilm, while through conductive pili for sludge aggregates. AHLs quantification and the analysis for quorum sensing (QS) related genes indicated higher QS activity at the population level was induced by GAC. Overall, the work illustrated the different DIET patterns, and suggested that QS played an important role in controlling the performance in GAC amended USAB.

In silico evaluation of a targeted metaproteomics strategy for broad screening of cellulolytic enzyme capacities in anaerobic microbiome bioreactors.Microbial-driven solubilization of lignocellulosic material is a natural mechanism that is exploited in anaerobic digesters (ADs) to produce biogas and other valuable bioproducts. Glycoside hydrolases (GHs) are the main enzymes that bacterial and archaeal populations use to break down complex polysaccharides in these reactors. Methodologies for rapidly screening the physical presence and types of GHs can provide information about their functional activities as well as the taxonomical diversity within AD systems but are largely unavailable. Targeted proteomic methods could potentially be used to provide snapshots of the GHs expressed by microbial consortia in ADs, giving valuable insights into the functional lignocellulolytic degradation diversity of a community. Such observations would be essential to evaluate the hydrolytic performance of a reactor or potential issues with it.
As a proof of concept, we performed an in silico selection and evaluation of groups of tryptic peptides from five important GH families derived from a dataset of 1401 metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) in anaerobic digesters. Following empirical rules of peptide-based targeted proteomics, we selected groups of shared peptides among proteins within a GH family while at the same time being unique compared to all other background proteins. In particular, we were able to identify a tractable unique set of peptides that were sufficient to monitor the range of GH families. While a few thousand peptides would be needed for comprehensive characterization of the main GH families, we found that at least 50% of the proteins in these families (such as the key families) could be tracked with only 200 peptides. The unique peptides selected for groups of GHs were found to be sufficient for distinguishing enzyme specificity or microbial taxonomy. These in silico results demonstrate the presence of specific unique GH peptides even in a highly diverse and complex microbiome and reveal the potential for development of targeted metaproteomic approaches in ADs or lignocellulolytic microbiomes. Such an approach could be valuable for estimating molecular-level enzymatic capabilities and responses of microbial communities to different substrates or conditions, which is a critical need in either building or utilizing constructed communities or defined cultures for bio-production.
This in silico study demonstrates the peptide selection strategy for quantifying relevant groups of GH proteins in a complex anaerobic microbiome and encourages the development of targeted metaproteomic approaches in fermenters. The results revealed that targeted metaproteomics could be a feasible approach for the screening of cellulolytic enzyme capacities for a range of anaerobic microbiome fermenters and thus could assist in bioreactor evaluation and optimization.

Microbial and functional characterization of granulated sludge from full-scale UASB thermophilic reactor applied to sugarcane vinasse treatment.Considering the scarcity of data in the literature regarding phylogenetic and metabolic composition of different inocula, especially those from thermophilic conditions, this research aimed at characterizing the microbial community and preferable metabolic pathways of an UASB reactor sludge applied to the thermophilic treatment (55°C) of sugarcane vinasse, by means of shotgun metagenomics. After its metabolic potential was depicted, it was possible to observe several genes encoding enzymes that are of great importance to anaerobic digestion processes with different wastes as substrate, especially regarding the biodegradation of carbohydrates and ligninolytic compounds, glycerolypids, volatile fatty acids and alcohols metabolism and biogas (H and CH) production. The genera identified in higher relative abundances for Bacteria domain were  (37.52 ± 1.8%), possibly related to the sludge endogenic activity due to its strong relation with a peptidoglycan lyase enzymes family, followed by  (5.01 ± 1.0%),  (4.36 ± 0.2%),  (4.32 ± 0.5%),  (2.93 ± 0.3%),  (2.75 ± 0.2%),  (2.14 ± 0.2%) and  (1.78 ± 0.1%), mostly related with carbohydrates fermentations and/or H production. For Archaea domain,  (0.61 ± 0.1%),  (0.38 ± 0.0%),  (0.30 ± 0.1%),  (0.03 ± 0.0%),  (0.02 ± 1.8%),  (0.013 ± 0.0%),  and  (0.01 ± 0.0%) were the most dominant ones, being  the most related with methanogenesis. It was concluded that the robust inoculum description performed in this study may subside future biotechnological researches by using similar inocula (UASB sludges), focusing on the obtainment of value-added by-products by means of anaerobic digestion, such as volatile fatty acids, alcohols and biogas (H and CH), by using several types of waste as substrate.

Archaeal and Bacterial Content in a Two-Stage Anaerobic System for Efficient Energy Production from Agricultural Wastes.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a microbially-driven process enabling energy production. Microorganisms are the core of anaerobic digesters and play an important role in the succession of hydrolysis, acidogenesis, acetogenesis, and methanogenesis processes. The diversity of participating microbial communities can provide new information on digester performance for biomass valorization and biofuel production. In this study anaerobic systems were used, operating under mesophilic conditions that realized biodegradation processes of waste wheat straw pretreated with NaOH-a renewable source for hydrogen and methane production. These processes could be managed and optimized for hydrogen and methane separately but combining them in a two-stage system can lead to higher yields and a positive energy balance. The aim of the study was to depict a process of biohydrogen production from lignocellulosic waste followed by a second one leading to the production of biomethane. Archaeal and bacterial consortia in a two-stage system operating with wheat straw were identified for the first time and the role of the most important representatives was elucidated. The mixed cultures were identified by the molecular-biological methods of metagenomics. The results showed that biohydrogen generation is most probably due to the presence of , which was 28.2% to 45.4% of the microbial community in the first and the second bioreactor, respectively. Archaeal representatives belonging to  (0.71% of the community),  (0.03%),  (0.012%), and  (0.01%) were proven in the methane-generating reactor. The correlation between substrate degradation and biogas accumulation was calculated, together with the profile of fatty acids as intermediates produced during the processes. The hydrogen concentration in the biogas reached 14.43%, and the Methane concentration was 69%. Calculations of the energy yield during the two-stage process showed 1195.89 kWh·t compared to a 361.62 kWh·t cumulative yield of energy carrier for a one-stage process.

Characterisation of cellulose-degrading organisms in an anaerobic digester.The recalcitrant nature of lignocellulosic biomass hinders efficient exploitation of this fraction for energy production. A better understanding of the microorganisms able to convert plant-based feedstocks is needed to improve anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic biomass. In this study, active thermophilic cellulose-degrading microorganisms were identified from a full-scale anaerobic digester fed with maize by using metagenome-resolved protein stable isotope probing (protein-SIP). C-cellulose was converted into C-methane with a C isotope ratio of 0.127 after two days of incubation. Metagenomic analysis revealed 238 different genes coding for carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes), six of which were directly associated with cellulose degradation. The protein-SIP analysis identified twenty heavily labelled peptides deriving from microorganisms actively assimilating labelled carbon from the degradation of C-cellulose, highlighting several members of the order Clostridiales. Corynebacterium was identified through CAZyme screening, amplicon analysis, and in the metagenome giving a strong identification of being a cellulose degrader.

A longitudinal study of the effect of temperature modification in full-scale anaerobic digesters - dataset combining 16S rDNA gene sequencing, metagenomics, and metabolomics data.Data in this article provides detailed information on the microbial dynamics and degradation performances in two full-scale anaerobic digesters operated in parallel for 476 days. One of them was kept at 35 °C for the whole experiment, while the other was submitted to sub-mesophilic (25 °C) conditions between days 123 and 373. Sludge samples were collected from both digesters at days 0, 80, 177, 218, 281, 353, and 462. The provided data include the operational conditions of the digesters and the characterization of the sludge samples at the physicochemical level, indicative of the digesters' degradation performance. It also includes the characterization of the sludge samples at the multiomics level (16S rRNA gene sequencing, metagenomics, and metabolomics profiling), to decipher the changes in the microbial structure and molecular activity. The 16S rDNA gene sequencing, metagenomics, and metabolomics data were generated using an IonTorrent PGM sequencer, an Illumina NextSeq 500 sequencer, and LTQ-Orbitrap XL mass spectrometer respectively. The 16S rDNA gene raw data and the metagenomics data have been deposited in the BioProject PRJEB49115, in the ENA database (https://www.ebi.ac.uk/ena/browser/view/PRJEB49115). The metabolomics data has been deposited at the Metabolomics Workbench, with study id ST002004 (DOI: 10.21228/M8JM6B). The data can be used as a source for comparisons with other studies working with data from full-scale anaerobic digesters, especially for those investigating the effect of the temperature modification. The data is associated with the research article "" (Puig-Castellví et al [1]).

Paraphocaeicola brunensis nimB Caecibacteroides pullorum
gen. nov., sp. nov., Carrying Two Variants of  Resistance Gene from Bacteroides fragilis, and  gen. nov., sp. nov., Two Novel Genera Isolated from Chicken Caeca.Three difficult-to-cultivate, strictly anaerobic strains, AN20, AN421, and AN502, were analyzed within a project studying possible probiotics for newly hatched chickens. Phylogenetic analyses showed that strains AN20, AN421, and AN502 formed two well-separated phylogenetic lineages in all phylogenetic and phylogenomic trees comprising members of the family . Comparison to reference genomes of type species Bacteroides fragilis NCTC 9343, Phocaeicola abscessus CCUG 55929, and Capsularis zoogleoformans ATCC 33285 showed low relatedness based on the calculated genome-to-genome distance and orthologous average nucleotide identity. Analysis of fatty acid profiles showed iso-C, anteiso-C, C, C, and iso-C 3OH as the major fatty acids for all three strains and additionally C 3OH for AN421 and AN502. A specific combination of respiratory quinones different from related taxa was found in analyzed strains, MK-5 plus MK-11 in strain AN20 and MK-5 plus MK-10 in strains AN421 and AN502. Strains AN421 and AN502 harbor complete CRISPR loci with CRISPR array, type II-C, accompanied by a set of  genes (, , and ) in close proximity. Interestingly, strain AN20 was found to harbor two copies of  gene with >95% similarity to  of B. fragilis, suggesting a horizontal gene transfer between these taxa. In summary, three isolates characterized in this study represent two novel species, which we proposed to be classified in two novel genera of the family , for which the names  sp. nov. (AN20 = CCM 9041 = DSM 111154) and  sp. nov. (AN421= CCM 9040 = DSM 111155) are proposed.  This study represents follow-up research on three difficult-to-cultivate anaerobic isolates originally isolated within a project focused on strains that are able to stably colonize newly hatched chickens, thus representing possible probiotics. This project is exceptional in that it successfully isolates several miscellaneous strains that required modified and richly supplemented anaerobic media, as information on many gut-colonizing bacteria is based predominantly on metagenomic studies. Superior colonization of newly hatched chickens by  spp.,  spp., or related taxa can be considered of importance for development of future probiotics. Although different experiments can also be performed with provisionally characterized isolates, precise taxonomical definition is necessary for subsequent broad communication. The aim of this study is therefore to thoroughly characterize these isolates that represent novel genera and precisely determine their taxonomic position among related taxa to facilitate further research and communication involving these strains.

Leveraging multiomics approaches for producing lignocellulose degrading enzymes.Lignocellulosic materials form the building block of 50% of plant biomass comprising non-chewable agri-components like wheat straw, rice stubbles, wood shavings and other crop residues. The degradation of lignin, cellulose and hemicellulose is complicated and presently being done by chemical process for industrial application through a very energy intensive process. Lignin degradation is primarily an oxidative process where the enzyme lignin peroxidase digests the polymer into smaller fragments. Being a recalcitrant component, higher lignin content poses a challenge of lower recovery of product for industrial use. Globally, the scientists are working on leveraging fungal biotechnology for using the lignocellulose degrading enzymes secreted by actinomycetes and basidiomycetes fungal groups. Enzymes contributing to degradation of lignin are mainly performing the function of modifying the lignin and degrading the lignin. Ligninolytic enzymes do not act as an independent reaction but are vital to complete the degradation process. Microbial enzyme technology is an emerging green tool in industrial biotechnology for commercial application. Bioprocessing of lignocellulosic biomass is challenged by limitations in enzymatic and conversion process where pretreatment and separation steps are done to remove lignin and hydrolyze carbohydrate into fermentable sugars. This review highlights recent advances in molecular biotechnology, lignin valorization, sequencing, decipher microbial membership, and characterize enzyme diversity through 'omics' techniques. Emerging techniques to characterize the interwoven metabolism and spatial interactions between anaerobes are also reviewed, which will prove critical to developing a predictive understanding of anaerobic communities to guide in microbiome engineering This requires more synergistic collaborations from microbial biotechnologists, bioprocess engineers, enzymologists, and other biotechnological fields.

Effect of different microbial seeds on batch anaerobic digestion of fish waste.Initial microbial compositions would be the precursor for the efficient anaerobic digestion (AD) of fish waste (FW). A mesophilic batch test was conducted using four seeds collected from different digesters treating various combinations of substrates to investigate their effects on FW degradation. Key microbial groups were identified by 16s rRNA gene-based metagenomics analysis. Among four, the seed from the digester co-digesting livestock manure, food waste, and food wastewater showed the best performance and obtained the highest methane yield (350.5 ± 5.2 mL/gVS) and lowest lag phase (0.6 ± 0.1 d). Proteiniphilum, Aminobacterium, dgA-11 gut group, and Syntrophomonas were dominant bacterial genera identified in FW degradation. Methanosaeta was the dominant methanogen in the best performing seed and microbial network analysis revealed its contribution to achieving the highest CH yield. Obtained results could be useful in selecting microbial seed sources to avoid system imbalance in full-scale digesters that treat FW.

Integrated multi-omics analyses reveal the key microbial phylotypes affecting anaerobic digestion performance under ammonia stress.Ammonia inhibition is one of the most common causes of instability during the operation of commercial biogas plants. Here, the sensitivity of different functional bacteria to ammonia stress, the ability of functional bacteria to adapt to ammonia stress, and the key phylotypes affecting anaerobic digestion (AD) performance were studied by evaluating the process performance, active microbiome, and protein expression patterns during endogenous ammonia accumulation using integrated metagenomics and metaproteomics analyses. Acetate metabolism was most sensitive to ammonia stress, and the expression activity of methyl-CoM reductase of Methanothrix was inhibited at relatively low ammonia concentrations, which resulted in the accumulation of acetate and other short-chain volatile fatty acids (VFAs) through feedback effects. As the AD process progressed, the abundance of active Methanosarcina with high ammonia tolerance increased, and the activity of their enzymes related to acetoclastic methanation was significantly up-regulated, which resulted in the complete restoration of acetate metabolism and AD performance. Thus, microbial communities can cope with acetate metabolic repression through self-optimization. In contrast, when the total ammonia nitrogen (TAN) and free ammonia nitrogen (FAN) increased to 4846.95 mg N/L and 337.46 mg N/L, respectively, propionate (and no other VFAs) accumulated in the digester, which was accompanied by a decrease in methane yield by more than 65%. At this time, the abundance of active syntrophic propionate-oxidizing bacteria (SPOB) decreased by 52%, and the expression of key enzymes related to propionate degradation was significantly down-regulated. The proportion of down-regulated differentially expressed proteins in the dominant Pelotomaculum was as high as 94%, indicating the severe suppression of the growth of these functional bacteria as well as their inability to easily acclimate to ammonia stress. Thus, SPOB appeared to be the key microbial phylotypes affecting AD performance under ammonia stress. Ammonia inhibited the methylmalonyl-CoA pathway of Pelotomaculum by inhibiting the expression of succinyl-CoA synthase, which resulted in the suppression of syntrophic propionate oxidation. The results of this study provide new insights into the microbial mechanism of ammonia inhibition and identify the key phylotypes affecting AD performance under ammonia stress. Our findings also shed light on the microbial regulatory targets of nitrogen-rich waste anaerobic digesters.

Anaerobic treatment of ultrasound pretreated palm oil mill effluent (POME): microbial diversity and enhancement of biogas production.In this study, palm oil mill effluent (POME) treated by ultrasonication at optimum conditions (sonication power: 0.88 W/mL, sonication duration: 16.2 min and total solids: 6% w/v) obtained from a previous study was anaerobically digested at different hydraulic retention times (HRTs). The reactor biomass was subjected to metagenomic study to investigate the impact on the anaerobic community dynamics. Experiments were conducted in two 5 L continuously stirred fill-and-draw reactors R1 and R2 operated at 30 ± 2 °C. Reactor R1 serving as control reactor was fed with unsonicated POME with HRT of 15 and 20 days (R1-15 and R1-20), whereas reactor R2 was fed with sonicated POME with the same HRTs (R2-15 and R2-20). The most distinct archaea community shift was observed among Methanosaeta (R1-15: 26.6%, R2-15: 34.4%) and Methanobacterium (R1-15: 7.4%, R2-15: 3.2%). The genus Methanosaeta was identified from all reactors with the highest abundance from the reactors R2. Mean daily biogas production was 6.79 L from R2-15 and 4.5 L from R1-15, with relative methane gas abundance of 85% and 73%, respectively. Knowledge of anaerobic community dynamics allows process optimization for maximum biogas production.

Key microbial clusters and environmental factors affecting the removal of antibiotics in an engineered anaerobic digestion system.To identify the key microbial clusters and influencing factors involved in antibiotic removal from engineered anaerobic digestion (AD) systems, the dynamic characteristics of antibiotics, physiochemical factors, microbial communities and functional genes were investigated by 16S rRNA and metagenome sequencing. The results showed that antibiotic removal occurred mainly in the first 21 days, and sulfonamides had the highest removal rate. The key microbial clusters related to the biodegradation of antibiotics consisted mainly of Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes. The key enzymes consisted of deaminases, peptidases, C-N ligases, decarboxylases and alkyl-aryl transferases. Structural equation modelling indicated that low concentrations of propionic acid promoted the biodegradation activities of key microbial clusters in the first 21 days, but their activities were inhibited by the accumulated propionic acid after 21 days. Thus, propionic acid should be regulated in engineered AD systems to prevent the adverse effect of acid inhibition on antibiotic-degrading bacteria.

Fungal and ciliate protozoa are the main rumen microbes associated with methane emissions in dairy cattle.Mitigating the effects of global warming has become the main challenge for humanity in recent decades. Livestock farming contributes to greenhouse gas emissions, with an important output of methane from enteric fermentation processes, mostly in ruminants. Because ruminal microbiota is directly involved in digestive fermentation processes and methane biosynthesis, understanding the ecological relationships between rumen microorganisms and their active metabolic pathways is essential for reducing emissions. This study analysed whole rumen metagenome using long reads and considering its compositional nature in order to disentangle the role of rumen microbes in methane emissions.
The β-diversity analyses suggested a subtle association between methane production and overall microbiota composition (0.01 < R2 < 0.02). Differential abundance analysis identified 36 genera and 279 KEGGs as significantly associated with methane production (Padj < 0.05). Those genera associated with high methane production were Eukaryota from Alveolata and Fungi clades, while Bacteria were associated with low methane emissions. The genus-level association network showed 2 clusters grouping Eukaryota and Bacteria, respectively. Regarding microbial gene functions, 41 KEGGs were found to be differentially abundant between low- and high-emission animals and were mainly involved in metabolic pathways. No KEGGs included in the methane metabolism pathway (ko00680) were detected as associated with high methane emissions. The KEGG network showed 3 clusters grouping KEGGs associated with high emissions, low emissions, and not differentially abundant in either. A deeper analysis of the differentially abundant KEGGs revealed that genes related with anaerobic respiration through nitrate degradation were more abundant in low-emission animals.
Methane emissions are largely associated with the relative abundance of ciliates and fungi. The role of nitrate electron acceptors can be particularly important because this respiration mechanism directly competes with methanogenesis. Whole metagenome sequencing is necessary to jointly consider the relative abundance of Bacteria, Archaea, and Eukaryota in the statistical analyses. Nutritional and genetic strategies to reduce CH4 emissions should focus on reducing the relative abundance of Alveolata and Fungi in the rumen. This experiment has generated the largest ONT ruminal metagenomic dataset currently available.

Performance and metagenomics analysis of anaerobic digestion of food waste with adding biochar supported nano zero-valent iron under mesophilic and thermophilic condition.A large amount of food waste (FW) brings environmental pollution and sanitation problems. Anaerobic digestion (AD) is an effective technology to treat FW and generate biogas energy. This study investigated the effect of biochar supported nano zero-valent iron (BC-nZVI) on AD performance of FW. Results showed that the cumulative methane yield (CMY) increased by 21.52%-54.90% and the lag time decreased significantly with BC-nZVI. Under mesophilic and thermophilic condition, the peak of CMY was achieved at 178.82 ± 5.27 mL/g VS and 193.01 ± 6.81 mL/g VS with 5 g/L BC-nZVI, respectively. Besides, BC-nZVI stimulated hydrolysis process and reduced the inhibition of NH-N and volatile fatty acids accumulation, and it could improve the system stability. Structural equation model analysis indicated that digestion time, BC-nZVI, NH-N, temperature and total volatile fatty acid had significant effects on CMY, explaining 92.20% of its total variation. The metagenomic analysis of key microorganisms and related metabolism pathways involved in AD system was further investigated. The results suggested that BC-nZVI contributed to strengthen methanogenesis through enriching the various predominant methanogenic pathways and activating most enzymes related to methane metabolism. BC-nZVI could improve the AD system function and provided a better AD performance by shifting the microbial communities and altering functional genes. This study provided a theoretical basis for BC-nZVI applications and improvements in AD process of FW.

Response behavior of antibiotic resistance genes to zinc oxide nanoparticles in cattle manure thermophilic anaerobic digestion process: A metagenomic analysis.This work investigated the metagenomics-based behavior of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) during cattle manure anaerobic digestion with zinc oxide nanoparticles (ZnO NPs) that are commonly used as animal feed additives. The 6.6% decrease in total ARGs abundance while remained unchanged ARGs diversity with ZnO NPs (5 mg/g total solid), suggested ZnO NPs may mitigate ARGs risk by abundance. Also, ZnO NPs affected ARGs with mechanisms specifically of antibiotic inactivation and antibiotic target change, and declined potential hosts' abundance (bacterial genus Ruminiclostridium, Riminococcus, and Paenibacillus) which mainly contributed to the decreased ARGs' abundance. Besides, microbial chemotaxis decreased by 17% with ZnO NPs compared to that without nanoparticles indicated a depression on potential hosts, who could develop the mechanism to adapt to altered digestion conditions, which probably inhibited the ARGs' propagation. These findings are important to promote understanding of the potential ARGs risks in treatments of livestock wastes containing animal feed additives.

Thermal Hydrolysis Pretreatment-Anaerobic Digestion Promotes Plant-Growth Biostimulants Production from Sewage Sludge by Upregulating Aromatic Amino Acids Transformation and Quinones Supply.Micromolecular plant-growth biostimulants (micro-PBs) production from sewage sludge is attracting increasing interest, as it is expected to enhance the fertilizing effect of sludge for land application. This study attempted to promote effective micro-PBs production from sewage sludge through thermal hydrolysis pretreatment-anaerobic digestion (THP-AD) and explore the underpinning regulation mechanisms. Results showed that the highest effective micro-PB production in digested sludge was achieved in THP(160 °C)-AD by day 12, with 80.73 mg/kg volatile solid (VS) of phytohormones and 417.75 mg/kg VS of allelochemicals, and these effective micro-PBs all originated from aromatic amino acids (AAAs). The metabolomic and metagenomic results revealed that, as compared with THP(120 °C)-AD and AD without THP, THP(160°C)-AD uniquely upregulated AAAs biosynthesis and consequently improved AAAs metabolism toward effective micro-PBs production. Further exploration of related microbial pathways and metabolites suggested that the upregulated AAAs biosynthesis in THP(160 °C)-AD in the early stage was partially attributed to the enhanced carbohydrate release. More importantly, the results showed that the amount of quinones, which probably facilitate energy generation via acting as electron-transfer mediators, was significantly positively correlated with the abundance of AAAs biosynthesis genes ( = 0.93). Hence, the improved initial release and biosynthesis of quinones are critical in enhancing the AAAs biosynthesis in THP(160 °C)-AD. Moreover, the enhanced quinones supply and the consequent active AAAs transformation in THP(160 °C)-AD reinforced the humification process, highly supporting effective micro-PBs stabilization. The important roles of quinones in effective micro-PBs production and stabilization in sludge anaerobic digestion should be considered in technology development for micro-PBs recovery.

Metataxonomics, metagenomics and metabolomics analysis of the influence of temperature modification in full-scale anaerobic digesters.Full-scale anaerobic digesters' performance is regulated by modifying their operational conditions, but little is known about how these modifications affect their microbiome. In this work, we monitored two originally mesophilic (35 °C) full-scale anaerobic digesters during 476 days. One digester was submitted to sub-mesophilic (25 °C) conditions between days 123 and 373. We characterized the effect of temperature modification using a multi-omics (metataxonomics, metagenomics, and metabolomics) approach. The metataxonomics and metagenomics results revealed that the lower temperature allowed a substantial increase of the sub-dominant bacterial population, destabilizing the microbial community equilibrium and reducing the biogas production. After restoring the initial mesophilic temperature, the bacterial community manifested resilience in terms of microbial structure and functional activity. The metabolomic signature of the sub-mesophilic acclimation was characterized by a rise of amino acids and short peptides, suggesting a protein degradation activity not directed towards biogas production.

Performance and microbial community evaluation of full-scale two-phase anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge."Temperature Staging and Biological Phasing" (TSBP) is an improved two-phase anaerobic digestion (AD) technology. This technology hydrolyzes waste activated sludge (WAS) at 45 °C and converts methane at mesophilic temperature (35-38 °C), with hydraulic retention times of 3-5 d and 14-17 d, respectively. In this study, the performance and microbial community dynamics of full-scale TSBP-based sludge anaerobic digestion system were studied, and the technology was evaluated by energy balance and ecological benefit analysis. The stable operation for 390 d showed that the cumulative biogas yield was about 349,041 m, the maximum biogas yield rate was 563.68 L/kg VS, and the VS degradation rate of organic matters in the sludge was 47.19%. Proteobacteria and Firmicutes were found to be the dominant bacteria in both thermophilic and mesophilic reactors. Methanobacterium and Methanosarcina were the two most abundant methanogenic genera in the AD samples. The aceticlastic methanogenesis was likely the predominant production pathway of methane in AD processes based on metagenomics. The TSBP system operated stably, and the recovered energy could achieve energy self-sufficiency, which provided technical reference for the anaerobic treatment of sludge.

Short-term changes in the anaerobic digestion microbiome and biochemical pathways with changes in organic load.Fluctuations in organic loading rate are frequently experienced in practical-scale anaerobic digestion systems. These impose shocks to the microbiome leading to process instability and failure. This study elucidated the short-term changes in biochemical pathways and the contributions of microbial groups involved in anaerobic digestion with varying organic load shocks. A mixture of starch and hipolypeptone corresponding to a carbon-to‑nitrogen ratio of 25 was used as substrate. Batch vial reactors were run using acclimatized sludge fed with organic load varying from 0 to 5 g VS/L. Methane yield decreased with increasing organic load. The microbiome alpha diversity represented as the number of operational taxonomic units (OTUs) and the Shannon index both decreased with organic load indicating microbiome specialization. The biochemical pathways predicted using PICRUSt2 were analyzed along with the corresponding contributions of microbial groups leading to a proposed pathway of substrate utilization. Genus Trichococcus (order Lactobacillales) increased in contribution to starch degradation pathways with increase in organic load while genus Macellibacteroides (order Bacteroidales) was prominent in contribution to bacterial anaerobic digestion pathways. Strictly acetoclastic Methanosaeta increased in prominence over hydrogenotrophic Methanolinea with increase in organic load. Results from this study provide better understanding of how anaerobic digesters respond to organic load shocks.

Application of pyritic sludge with an anaerobic granule consortium for nitrate removal in low carbon systems.Granules recovered from a highly reduced anaerobic digester were capable of active nitrogen removal in the absence of exogenous electron donors, averaging 0.25 mg mgNO-N /gVSS/d over 546 days of operation. Electron mass balance indicated that about half the influent nitrate was converted to ammonia via DNRA and another half denitrified. This capacity was associated with an onion-like structure of multiple layers enriched in reduced iron and sulfur, and a complex microbial community shown by metagenomic sequencing to consist of multiple physiological groups and associated activities, including methanogenesis, denitrification, dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonia (DNRA), iron oxidation and reduction, and sulfur reduction and oxidation. Nitrate reduction was supported by both entrained organic material and reduced iron and sulfur species, corresponding to 2.13 mg COD/gVSS/d. Batch incubations showed that approximately 15% of denitrified nitrate was coupled to the oxidation of sulfur derived from both sulfate respiration and granular material enriched in iron-sulfide. Inhibition of sulfate reduction resulted in redirection of electron flow to methanogenesis and, in combination with other batch tests, showed that these granules supported a complex microbial community in which cryptic redox cycles linked carbon, sulfur, and iron oxidation with nitrate, sulfate, iron, and carbon dioxide reduction. This system shows promise for treatment of nitrate contaminated ground water without addition of an external organic carbon source as well as wastewater treatment in combination with (granular) sludge elimination leading in a net reduction of solid treatment costs.

Promotion of methane production by magnetite via increasing acetogenesis revealed by metagenome-assembled genomes.Metal oxides are wildly studied to enhance anaerobic digestion and the methanogenic process, which is generally interpreted by increased direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET). Yet microbial mechanisms involved are under debate. Herein, methane production dynamics were analyzed, and acceleration on biogas accumulation was presented. Complementing previous findings, FeO nanoparticles stimulated bacterial fermentation rather than methanogenesis or syntropy between electro-microorganism and methanogen. More importantly, metagenome-assembled genomes proved that FeO nanoparticles increased acetogenesis by Parabacteroides chartae, which provided abundant substrates for acetoclastic methanogenesis. Interestingly, the weakly conductive VO·HO nanowires increased potential hydrogen-producing bacteria, Brevundimonas, and electro-microorganisms, Clostridium and Rhodoferax, which is convenient for conducting DIET. Collectively, conductivity may not be a critical factor in mediating DIET and distinct strategies of metal oxides on methane production propose more possibilities, such as fermentation process.

Metagenomic insight of corn straw conditioning on substrates metabolism during coal anaerobic fermentation.Increasing methane production from anaerobic digestion of coal is challenging. This study shows that the combined fermentation of coal and corn straw greatly enriched the substrates available to microorganisms. This was mainly manifested in the increased types and abundance of organic matter in the fermentation liquid, which enhanced methane production by 61%. Metagenomic analysis showed that the addition of corn straw enriched the abundance of Methanosarcina in the combined fermentation system and promoted the complementary advantages of the microorganisms. At the same time, the abundance of genes that convert glucose into acetic acid (K00927, K01689, K01905, etc.) in the combined fermentation system increased, which is conducive to acidification process and biomethane production. In addition, there were the two key methanogenic pathways, namely aceticlastic (57.1%-63.5%) and hydrogenotrophic (23.4%-25.1%) methanogenesis, identified in the single coal fermentation system and the combined coal and corn straw fermentation system. Combined fermentation enhanced the hydrogenotrophic and methylotrophic methanogenic pathways by increasing the gene abundance of K00200 (methane production from CO and oxidation of coenzyme M to CO), K00440 (participates in the binding to other known physiological receptors with hydrogen as a donor), and K00577 (methyltransferase).

16S rRNA genes- and metagenome-based confirmation of syntrophic butyrate-oxidizing methanogenesis enriched in high butyrate loading.The understanding and enrichment of consortia formed by syntrophic butyrate-oxidizing bacteria and methanogens in the complex environment are crucial for effectively degrading butyrate and preventing acid inhibition. In this study, the better butyrate-tolerated and highly efficient microbial consortia were domesticated and enriched through adding butyric acid ranging from 0.2 to 4.4 g/(L·d). The volumetric biogas production continuously increased to 1.65 L/(L·d). Microbial community diversity showed that a dramatic shift of bacterial structure occurred at BAL of 1.6 g/(L·d) and the structure presented better stability at high BAL. The syntrophic consortia and the main metabolic pathways were revealed through combination of the 16S rDNA and metagenome sequencing analyses. Syntrophomonas was the major butyrate-oxidizing bacterium and oxidized butyrate mainly through β-oxidaiton. Synergistaceae and Mesotoga acted as the main acetate-oxidizing bacteria. IHT and methanogenesis pathways were strongly enhanced by DMER64 and Methanosarcina as the main H carrier and dominant methanogen, respectively.

Bioelectrochemical systems with a cathode of stainless-steel electrode for treatment of refractory wastewater: Influence of electrode material on system performance and microbial community.The large-scale application of the bioelectrochemical system (BES) is limited by the cost-effective electrode materials. In this study, five kinds of stainless-steel materials were used as the cathode of the BES coupled with anaerobic digestion (BES-AD) for the treatment of diluted N, N-dimethylacetamide (DMAC) wastewater. Compared with a carbon-cloth cathode, BES-AD with a stainless-steel cathode had more engineering due to its low cost, although the operating efficiencies were slightly inferior. Stainless-steel mesh with a 100 µm aperture (SSM-100 μm) was the most cost-effective electrode and the implanted BES exhibited better COD removal efficiency, electrochemical performance and biodegradability. Analysis of microbial community revealed the synergetic effect between exoelectrogen and fermentative bacteria had been strengthened in the SSM-100 μm cathode biofilm. Function analysis of the microbial community based on PICRUSt predicted metagenomes revealed that the metabolic pathways of xenobiotics biodegradation and metabolism in the SSM-100 μm cathode were stimulated.

Current understanding and perspectives in anaerobic digestion based on genome-resolved metagenomic approaches.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a technique that can be used to treat high concentrations of various organic wastes using a consortium of functionally diverse microorganisms under anaerobic conditions. Methane gas, a beneficial by-product of the AD process, is a renewable energy source that can replace fossil fuels following purification. However, detailed functional roles and metabolic interactions between microbial populations involved in organic waste removal and methanogenesis are yet to be known. Recent metagenomic approaches based on advanced high-throughput sequencing techniques have enabled the exploration of holistic microbial taxonomy and functionality of complex microbial populations involved in the AD process. Gene-centric and genome-centric analyses based on metagenome-assembled genomes are a platform that can be used to study the composition of microbial communities and their roles during AD. This review looks at how these up-to-date metagenomic analyses can be applied to promote our understanding and improved the development of the AD process.

The biochemical mechanism of enhancing the conversion of chicken manure to biogenic methane using coal slime as additive.To improve the efficiency of methane production from chicken manure (CM) anaerobic digestion, the mechanism of coal slime (CS) as an additive on methane production characteristics were investigated. The results showed that adding an appropriate amount of CS quickened the start of the fermentation and effectively increased the methane yield. In addition, the pH changed in a stable manner in the liquid phase, and the concentrations of total ammonia nitrogen (TAN) and free ammonia nitrogen (FAN) were reduced. Moreover, organic matter was decomposed and volatile fatty acids (VFAs) were consumed effectively. The abundance of Bacteroides in the bacterial community and Methanosarcina in the archaea was increased. In addition, the reduction of CO was the main methanogenic pathway, and adding CS raised the abundance of genes for key enzymes in metabolic pathways during methane metabolism. The results provide a novel method for the efficient methane production from CM.

The challenges of monitoring and manipulating anaerobic microbial communities.Mixed anaerobic microbial communities are a key component in valorization of waste biomass via anaerobic digestion. Similar microbial communities are important as soil and animal microbiomes and have played a critical role in shaping the planet as it is today. Understanding how individual species within communities interact with others and their environment is important for improving performance and potential applications of an inherently green technology. Here, the challenges associated with making measurements critical to assessing the status of anaerobic microbial communities are considered. How these measurements could be incorporated into control philosophies and augment the potential of anaerobic microbial communities to produce different and higher value products from waste materials are discussed. The benefits and pitfalls of current genetic and molecular approaches to measuring and manipulating anaerobic microbial communities and the challenges which should be addressed to realise the potential of this exciting technology are explored.

Genome-centric metagenomics provides new insights into the microbial community and metabolic potential of landfill leachate microbiota.Landfills are important sources of microorganisms associated with anaerobic digestion. However, the knowledge on microbiota along with their functional potential in this special habitat are still lacking. In this study, we recovered 1168 non-redundant metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) from nine landfill leachate samples collected from eight cities across China, spanning 42 phyla, 73 classes, 114 orders, 189 families, and 267 genera. Totally, 74.1% of 1168 MAGs could not be classified to any known species and 5.9% of these MAGs belonged to microbial dark matter phyla. Two putative novel classes were discovered from landfill leachate samples. The identification of thousands of novel carbohydrate-active enzymes showed similar richness level compared to the cow rumen microbiota. The methylotrophic methanogenic pathway was speculated to contribute significantly to methane production in the landfill leachate because of its co-occurrence with the acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogenic pathways. The genetic potential of dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA) was observed, implying DNRA may play a role in ammonium generation in landfill leachate. These findings implied that landfill leachate might be a valuable microbial resource repository and filled the previous understanding gaps for both methanogenesis and nitrogen cycling in landfill leachate microbiota. Our study provides a comprehensive genomic catalog and substantially provides unprecedented taxonomic and functional profiles of the landfill leachate microbiota.

Mesophilic condition favors simultaneous partial nitrification and denitrification (SPND) and anammox for carbon and nitrogen removal from anaerobic digestate food waste effluent.Three simultaneous partial nitrification and denitrification (SPND) bioreactors were established on ambient (30 °C), mesophilic (40 °C) and thermophilic condition (50 °C) at high dissolved oxygen levels (2-7 mg L) to remove nitrogen and carbon from anaerobic digestate food waste effluent (ADFE). The bioreactor performed best under mesophilic condition, with TN and COD removal efficiency of 96.3 ± 0.1% and 91.7 ± 0.1%, respectively. Free ammonia (FA) and free nitrous acid (FNA) alternately ensured selective inhibition of nitrite-oxidizing bacteria (NOB) in long-term operation of SPND systems. Candidatus Brocadia, known as anammox bacteria, was observed unexpectedly in the bioreactors. The analysis of microbial community and metabolic pathways revealed that mesophilic strategy stimulated SPND and anammox process. Mesophilic condition helped autotropic microbes resist the competitive pressure from heterotrophic bacteria, improving the balance between nitrifiers, anammox bacteria and other co-existing heterotrophs. Overall, this study offers new insights into the linkage among temperature, pollutant removals (carbon and nitrogen) and metabolic potential in the SPND bioreactors.

Fates of intracellular and extracellular antibiotic resistance genes during the cattle farm wastewater treatment process.Cattle farm wastewater, as a significant reservoir for antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs), has received wide attention. Intracellular and extracellular ARGs (iARGs and eARGs) were detected during wastewater treatment, including solid-liquid separation, anaerobic regulation, upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) digestion, an anoxic-oxic-anoxic-oxic (AO) process, a membrane bioreactor (MBR), and ozone disinfection. Ten abundant ARGs were chosen as the target ARGs according to metagenomic sequencing. The concentrations of the total target iARGs and eARGs were 6.12 × 10 and 3.24 × 10 copy numbers/mL in raw wastewater, and then 3.79 × 10 and 3.95 × 10 copy numbers/mL in final effluent, because UASB, AO, MBR and ozone disinfection can gradually reduce the concentrations of most ARGs. The concentrations of ARGs were positively correlated with almost all wastewater quality indicators. Positive correlation was also observed between iARGs and Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes and Spirochaetes, indicating that the bacteria in these three phyla might be the main hosts of ARGs. Wastewater quality indicators and bacterial community composition affected the distribution and removal of ARGs during cattle wastewater treatment.

Metabolic cascade of complex organic wastes to medium-chain carboxylic acids: A review on the state-of-the-art multi-omics analysis for anaerobic chain elongation pathways.Medium-chain carboxylic acid (MCCA) production from organic wastes has attracted much attention because of their higher energy contents and diverse applications. Anaerobic reactor microbiomes are stable and resilient and have resulted in efficient performance during many years of operation for thousands of full-scale anaerobic digesters worldwide. The method underlying how the relevant microbial pathways contribute to elongate carbon chains in reactor microbiomes is important. In particular, the reverse β-oxidation pathway genes are critical to upgrading short-chain fermentation products to MCCAs via a chain elongation (CE) process. Diverse genomics and metagenomics studies have been conducted in various fields, ranging from intracellular metabolic pathways to metabolic cascades between different strains. This review covers taxonomic approach to culture processes depending on types of organic wastes and the deeper understanding of genome and metagenome-scale CE pathway construction, and the co-culture and multi-omics technology that should be addressed in future research.

2
Wood-Ljungdahl pathway utilisation during in situ H biomethanation.Biogas production from organic waste is a waste-to-energy technology with the potential to contribute significantly to sustainable energy production. Upgrading of biogas using in situ biomethanation with hydrogen has the potential for surplus electricity storage, and delivery of biogas with a methane content of >90%, allowing for easier integration into the natural gas grid, as well as conversion to other products. Microbial communities in biomethanation reactors undergo changes, however, these changes are largely unexplored. In the present study, metagenome-resolved protein stable isotope probing (Protein-SIP) was applied to laboratory scale batch incubations operating under anaerobic digestion, and (pre-adapted) biomethanation conditions, fed with C-labelled bicarbonate, in order to gain insight into the microbial activities during CO-reduction. The strongest and most microbially diverse isotopic incorporation was observed in the pre-adapted biomethanation incubation. Furthermore, divergent incorporation of C-labelled bicarbonate was also observed in the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway, with the anaerobic digester incubations primarily showing labelled proteins in the peripheral pathways leading toward production of energy and biomass. The pre-adapted biomethanation incubations consumed H and CO, but did not convert it to CH, suggesting the production of acetate in these incubations, which was supported by heavy labelling of key enzymes in the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway. Twelve (ten high quality) metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) coding for C-incorporated proteins were extracted from the metagenome, eight of which contained one or more of the key genes in the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway, one of which was affiliated to Methanosarcina. Together, the findings in the present study deepen our knowledge surrounding microbial communities in biomethanation systems, and contribute to the development of better strategies for implementation of biogas upgrading and microbial management.

Bioaugmentation improves batch psychrophilic anaerobic co-digestion of cattle manure and corn straw.Low temperatures result in poor anaerobic digestion (AD). To investigate whether bioaugmentation can improve anaerobic co-digestion of cattle manure and corn straw at 20 °C, five different doses of methanogenic propionate-degrading culture (4%, 8%, 12%, 14%, and 16%) were added to batch AD systems to compare bioaugmentation performance. The results showed that the methane production of all the bioaugmented digesters was enhanced compared to the control, increasing 2.80-4.20-fold with digestion times (T) shorter by 11-22 d. The recommended dose for biogas production was 14%, and the recommended dose for the highest bioaugmentation efficiency of microbes was 4%. These improvements were due to the addition of methanogenic propionate-degrading culture, which alleviated volatile fatty acids (VFA) accumulation, especially that of acetate and propionate. Metagenomic sequencing analysis indicated that the increased proportion of propionate-oxidizing bacteria, syntrophic butyrate-oxidizing bacteria, and acetoclastic methanogens in bioaugmentation reactors may be responsible for better AD performance.

Extracellular hydrolytic potential drives microbiome shifts during anaerobic co-digestion of sewage sludge and food waste.Bacterial community structure and dynamics in anaerobic digesters are primarily influenced by feedstock composition. It is therefore important to unveil microbial traits that explain microbiome variations in response to substrate changes. Here, gene and genome-centric metagenomics were used to examine microbiome dynamics in four laboratory-scale reactors, in which sewage sludge was co-digested with increasing amounts of food waste. A co-occurrence network revealed microbiome shifts in response to changes in substrate composition and concentration. Food waste concentration correlated with extracellular enzymes and metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) involved in the degradation of complex carbohydrates commonly found in fruits and plant cell walls as well as with the abundance of hydrolytic MAGs. A key role was attributed to Proteiniphillum for being the only bacteria that encoded the complete pectin degradation pathway. These results suggest that changes of feedstock composition establish new microbial niches for bacteria with the capacity to degrade newly added substrates.

Sixteen Genome Sequences of Denitrifying Bacteria Assembled from Enriched Cultures of Anaerobic Pig Manure Digestate.We report 16 genomes assembled from the metagenome of pig manure digestate enriched with the addition of NO. These denitrifying bacterial genomes all contain the  gene, encoding NO reductase. Their sizes range from 1,902,599 bp to 6,264,563 bp, with completeness of 75.03% to 98.89%, GC contents of 32.86% to 69.66%, and contamination of 0% to 8.4%.

Prospects for multi-omics in the microbial ecology of water engineering.Advances in high-throughput sequencing technologies and bioinformatics approaches over almost the last three decades have substantially increased our ability to explore microorganisms and their functions - including those that have yet to be cultivated in pure isolation. Genome-resolved metagenomic approaches have enabled linking powerful functional predictions to specific taxonomical groups with increasing fidelity. Additionally, related developments in both whole community gene expression surveys and metabolite profiling have permitted for direct surveys of community-scale functions in specific environmental settings. These advances have allowed for a shift in microbiome science away from descriptive studies and towards mechanistic and predictive frameworks for designing and harnessing microbial communities for desired beneficial outcomes. Water engineers, microbiologists, and microbial ecologists studying activated sludge, anaerobic digestion, and drinking water distribution systems have applied various (meta)omics techniques for connecting microbial community dynamics and physiologies to overall process parameters and system performance. However, the rapid pace at which new omics-based approaches are developed can appear daunting to those looking to apply these state-of-the-art practices for the first time. Here, we review how modern genome-resolved metagenomic approaches have been applied to a variety of water engineering applications from lab-scale bioreactors to full-scale systems. We describe integrated omics analysis across engineered water systems and the foundations for pairing these insights with modeling approaches. Lastly, we summarize emerging omics-based technologies that we believe will be powerful tools for water engineering applications. Overall, we provide a framework for microbial ecologists specializing in water engineering to apply cutting-edge omics approaches to their research questions to achieve novel functional insights. Successful adoption of predictive frameworks in engineered water systems could enable more economically and environmentally sustainable bioprocesses as demand for water and energy resources increases.

Performance of full-scale aerobic composting and anaerobic digestion on the changes of antibiotic resistance genes in dairy manure.Understanding the different performances of full-scale active composting (AC) and anaerobic digestion (AD) on the changes of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) in dairy manure is crucial to uncover the dissemination risks of ARGs in post-biotreated manure. In this regard, metagenomic sequencing was deployed to reveal the variations of ARGs in dairy manure in an intensive dairy farm. Results showed that the total abundance of ARGs increased from 150.64 reads/ng DNA to 204.06 reads/ng DNA in dairy manure, and it is mainly attributed to the contributions of AC (85.49%) rather than AD (14.51%). In AC, more ARG subtypes were induced and the dominant ARG subtypes were shifted completely, probably due to the enrichment of Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria which could be the hosts of multiple ARGs. These results inspire us to further evaluate the dissemination risks of ARGs along the route from composted manure to soil and to plants.

Microbial adaptation and response to high ammonia concentrations and precipitates during anaerobic digestion under psychrophilic and mesophilic conditions.This study explored microbial adaptation to high ammonia concentrations (<1000 mg/L to 4000 mg/L) during anaerobic digestion (AD) under psychrophilic and mesophilic conditions, the latter of which yielded precipitates facilitating investigation of microbial response. The experimental setup was performed at bench-scale using microbial consortia from four different operating anaerobic digesters treating different organic wastes (WW-wastewater sludge, MN-manure, FW- food waste and CO-co-digestion (FW & MN)). Adaptation experiments were conducted with semi-continuous flow mode to resemble large-scale operation. Metagenome and 16S RNA analysis were performed for the first time in a psychrophilic reactor during an ammonia acclimation process. These analyses were also performed in mesophilic reactor exposed to precipitates and high ammonia levels. Diversity reduced when adaptation occurred successfully from 1.1 to 4 g/L of total ammonia nitrogen (TAN) under psychrophilic conditions, while the microbial community became more diverse under mesophilic conditions with ammonia inhibition. We report for the first time Methanocorposculum as a robust hydrogenotrophic methanogen at high ammoniacal concentrations under psychrophilic conditions. Additionally, Methanosarcina was present in low and high ammoniacal concentrations in mesophilic conditions, but there was a shift in species dominance. Methanosarcina barkeri stands out as a more resilient methanogen compared to Methanosarcina mazei, which initially dominated at <1.1 g/L TAN. We also explored the effects of sudden precipitates on methanogenic communities and methane production when they occurred under mesophilic conditions in two reactors. Methane production declined by more than 50% when precipitates occurred and was accompanied by pH reduction and VFA accumulation. Diversity data corroborated that methanogens were severely reduced. These two reactors were not able to recover with 50 days of added operation, demonstrating potential for long-term negative impacts of precipitate formation on AD performance stemming from negative impact to methanogenic communities.

Biogas and Volatile Fatty Acid Production During Anaerobic Digestion of Straw, Cellulose, and Hemicellulose with Analysis of Microbial Communities and Functions.The anaerobic digestion efficiency and methane production of straw was limited by its complex composition and structure. In this study, rice straw (RS), cellulose, and hemicellulose were used as raw materials to study biogas production performance and changes in the volatile fatty acids (VFAs). Further, microbial communities and genetic functions were analyzed separately for each material. The biogas production potential of RS, cellulose, and hemicellulose was different, with cumulative biogas production of 283.75, 412.50, and 620.64 mL/(g·VS), respectively. The methane content of the biogas produced from cellulose and hemicellulose was approximately 10% higher than that produced from RS after the methane content stabilized. The accumulation of VFAs occurred in the early stage of anaerobic digestion in all materials, and the cumulative amount of VFAs in both cellulose and hemicellulose was relatively higher than that in RS, and the accumulation time was 12 and 14 days longer, respectively. When anaerobic digestion progressed to a stable stage, Clostridium was the dominant bacterial genus in all three anaerobic digestion systems, and the abundance of Ruminofilibacter was higher during anaerobic digestion of RS. Genetically, anaerobic digestion of all raw materials proceeded mainly via aceticlastic methanogenesis, with similar functional components. The different performance of anaerobic digestion of RS, cellulose, and hemicellulose mainly comes from the difference of composition of raw materials. Increasing the accessibility of cellulose and hemicellulose in RS feedstock by pretreatment is an effective way to improve the efficiency of anaerobic digestion. Since the similar microbial community structure will be acclimated during anaerobic digestion, there is no need to adjust the initial inoculum when the accessibility of cellulose and hemicellulose changes.

Conversion of dietary inositol into propionate and acetate by commensal Anaerostipes associates with host health.We describe the anaerobic conversion of inositol stereoisomers to propionate and acetate by the abundant intestinal genus Anaerostipes. A inositol pathway was elucidated by nuclear magnetic resonance using [C]-inositols, mass spectrometry and proteogenomic analyses in A. rhamnosivorans, identifying 3-oxoacid CoA transferase as a key enzyme involved in both 3-oxopropionyl-CoA and propionate formation. This pathway also allowed conversion of phytate-derived inositol into propionate as shown with [C]-phytate in fecal samples amended with A. rhamnosivorans. Metabolic and (meta)genomic analyses explained the adaptation of Anaerostipes spp. to inositol-containing substrates and identified a propionate-production gene cluster to be inversely associated with metabolic biomarkers in (pre)diabetes cohorts. Co-administration of myo-inositol with live A. rhamnosivorans in western-diet fed mice reduced fasting-glucose levels comparing to heat-killed A. rhamnosivorans after 6-weeks treatment. Altogether, these data suggest a potential beneficial role for intestinal Anaerostipes spp. in promoting host health.

Solid-state anaerobic digestion of sugarcane bagasse at different solid concentrations: Impact of bio augmented cellulolytic bacteria on methane yield and insights on microbial diversity.This study investigated the impact of the potential cellulose degrading bacteria that could be bioaugmented in the solid-state anaerobic digestion (SSAD) of bagasse to enhance the methane yield. The prospective anaerobic cellulose degrading bacteria was isolated from the soil. SSAD experiments were organized with & without bioaugmentation with a substrate total solid (TS) of 25%, 30%, 40% and 50% at an optimized feed to microorganism (F/M) ratio of 1:1. The maximum yield of 0.44 L CH/ (g VS added) was obtained from bioaugmented bagasse at a TS of 40% whereas it was 0.34 L CH/(g VS added) for non-bioaugmented bagasse. The isolated bacterial strain was identified that belongs species Pseudomonas of Gamma Proteobacteria which exhibited good cellulolytic activity. Metagenomic studies found 90% of archaeal microorganisms affiliated to Methanosaeta, a strict acetoclastic methanogen.

Solid state anaerobic digestion of food waste and sewage sludge: Impact of mixing ratios and temperature on microbial diversity, reactor stability and methane yield.Food waste (FW) and sewage sludge (SS) were anaerobically co digested under solid state conditions (Total solids >15%) and observed that mixing ratio of 3:1 and 2:1 is optimum for mesophilic and thermophilic conditions respectively. The VS reduction and methane yield at optimized ratio was 76% and 0.35 L CH/(g VS reduced) respectively at mesophilic temperature whereas it was 88% and 0.42 L CH/(g VS reduced) at thermophilic temperature. The metagenomic analysis for these cases were done and high throughput DNA sequencing revealed that diversified bacterial groups that participate in the different metabolisms (hydrolysis, acidogenesis and acetogenesis) were mainly dominated by the phylum Firmicutes and Bacteriodetes. Genus Methanothrix is found to be dominant which is capable of generating methane by any methanogenic pathway among all the archaeal communities in the reactors followed by Methanolinea and Methanoculleus. However, it was understood through metagenomic studies that acetotrophic pathway is observed to be the major metabolic pathway in the reactors.

Dynamics of dark fermentation microbial communities in the light of lactate and butyrate production.This study focuses on the processes occurring during the acidogenic step of anaerobic digestion, especially resulting from nutritional interactions between dark fermentation (DF) bacteria and lactic acid bacteria (LAB). Previously, we have confirmed that DF microbial communities (MCs) that fed on molasses are able to convert lactate and acetate to butyrate. The aims of the study were to recognize the biodiversity of DF-MCs able and unable to convert lactate and acetate to butyrate and to define the conditions for the transformation.
MCs sampled from a DF bioreactor were grown anaerobically in mesophilic conditions on different media containing molasses or sucrose and/or lactate and acetate in five independent static batch experiments. The taxonomic composition (based on 16S_rRNA profiling) of each experimental MC was analysed in reference to its metabolites and pH of the digestive liquids. In the samples where the fermented media contained carbohydrates, the two main tendencies were observed: (i) a low pH (pH ≤ 4), lactate and ethanol as the main fermentation products, MCs dominated with Lactobacillus, Bifidobacterium, Leuconostoc and Fructobacillus was characterized by low biodiversity; (ii) pH in the range 5.0-6.0, butyrate dominated among the fermentation products, the MCs composed mainly of Clostridium (especially Clostridium_sensu_stricto_12), Lactobacillus, Bifidobacterium and Prevotella. The biodiversity increased with the ability to convert acetate and lactate to butyrate. The MC processing exclusively lactate and acetate showed the highest biodiversity and was dominated by Clostridium (especially Clostridium_sensu_stricto_12). LAB were reduced; other genera such as Terrisporobacter, Lachnoclostridium, Paraclostridium or Sutterella were found. Butyrate was the main metabolite and pH was 7. Shotgun metagenomic analysis of the selected butyrate-producing MCs independently on the substrate revealed C.tyrobutyricum as the dominant Clostridium species. Functional analysis confirmed the presence of genes encoding key enzymes of the fermentation routes.
Batch tests revealed the dynamics of metabolic activity and composition of DF-MCs dependent on fermentation conditions. The balance between LAB and the butyrate producers and the pH values were shown to be the most relevant for the process of lactate and acetate conversion to butyrate. To close the knowledge gaps is to find signalling factors responsible for the metabolic shift of the DF-MCs towards lactate fermentation. Video Abstract.

2
Early response of methanogenic archaea to H as evaluated by metagenomics and metatranscriptomics.The molecular machinery of the complex microbiological cell factory of biomethane production is not fully understood. One of the process control elements is the regulatory role of hydrogen (H). Reduction of carbon dioxide (CO) by H is rate limiting factor in methanogenesis, but the community intends to keep H concentration low in order to maintain the redox balance of the overall system. H metabolism in methanogens becomes increasingly important in the Power-to-Gas renewable energy conversion and storage technologies.
The early response of the mixed mesophilic microbial community to H gas injection was investigated with the goal of uncovering the first responses of the microbial community in the CH formation and CO mitigation Power-to-Gas process. The overall microbial composition changes, following a 10 min excessive bubbling of H through the reactor, was investigated via metagenome and metatranscriptome sequencing. The overall composition and taxonomic abundance of the biogas producing anaerobic community did not change appreciably 2 hours after the H treatment, indicating that this time period was too short to display differences in the proliferation of the members of the microbial community. There was, however, a substantial increase in the expression of genes related to hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis of certain groups of Archaea. As an early response to H exposure the activity of the hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis in the genus Methanoculleus was upregulated but the hydrogenotrophic pathway in genus Methanosarcina was downregulated. The RT-qPCR data corroborated the metatranscriptomic RESULTS: H injection also altered the metabolism of a number of microbes belonging in the kingdom Bacteria. Many Bacteria possess the enzyme sets for the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway. These and the homoacetogens are partners for syntrophic community interactions between the distinct kingdoms of Archaea and Bacteria.
External H regulates the functional activity of certain Bacteria and Archaea. The syntrophic cross-kingdom interactions in H metabolism are important for the efficient operation of the Power-to-Gas process. Therefore, mixed communities are recommended for the large scale Power-to-Gas process rather than single hydrogenotrophic methanogen strains. Fast and reproducible response from the microbial community can be exploited in turn-off and turn-on of the Power-to-Gas microbial cell factories.

Protein biomethanation: insight into the microbial nexus.Biomethanation of carbohydrates (e.g., lignocellulosic biomass) and lipids (e.g., waste oils) has been well studied. However, investigations on the biomethanation of protein-rich biowastes (PRBs) and associated microbial communities have not been reported. This review summarizes the challenges in the metabolic process of anaerobic digestion of PRBs and the microbial instability associated with it. We discuss the diversity of bacterial and archaeal communities via metagenomics under PRB mono- and codigestion. A stable community structure with enhanced metabolic activity is a core factor in PRB biomethanation. The application of strategies such as codigestion of PRBs with carbon-rich biomass and microbial stimulation/augmentation would make PRB biomethanation more feasible.

Variations of antibiotic resistome in swine wastewater during full-scale anaerobic digestion treatment.Anaerobic digesters have been widely used to treat wastewaters in livestock farms. With the increasing risk of antibiotic resistance originated from livestock husbandry, removal of antibiotics and antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) via anaerobic digesters deserved more attention. Here we investigated the removal of antibiotics and ARGs in swine wastewater by three on-farm full-scale anaerobic digesters, including buried biogas digester (BBD), up-flow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) and high density polyethylene covered biogas digester (HDPE-BD). Variations of antibiotic resistome in swine wastewater were further revealed by metagenomic sequencing. Results showed the removal efficiencies for antibiotics, ARGs and mobile genetic elements (MGEs) varied in the three digesters, ranging from 65.1% to 98.1%, 3.5%-71.0% and 26.9%-77.2%, respectively. In general, UASB and HDPE-BD showed better removal efficiencies than BBD. However, enrichment of metal resistance genes (MRGs) was noted in UASB. Pathogens could not be effectively removed by all of the three digesters. What's more, accumulation of pathogens was found in UASB (removal efficiencies: -8.5%-13.6%). Bacterial community succession, horizontal genetic transfer and biocide and metal resistance genes (BMRGs) profiles jointly structured the variation of antibiotic resistome during anaerobic digestion. A total of 334 high-quality bins were identified from swine wastewater, 96 of which belonged to phylum of Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria carried ARGs. Proteobacteria was the dominant multi-drug resistant flora. Meanwhile, ARG-carrying pathogens (Bacteroides and Mycolicibacter) were found in the swine wastewater, suggesting a potential threat to human and animal health. The findings from this study showed that HDPE-BD is the most eco-friendly and effective anaerobic digester in controlling risks from antibiotic resistance determinants in swine wastewater.

Variation of Metagenome From Feedstock to Digestate in Full-Scale Biogas Plants.Anaerobic digestion (AD) has been widely used to resolve the problem of organic wastes worldwide. Previous studies showed that the types of feedstock have a great influence on the AD microbiome, and a huge number of AD populations are migrated from upstream feedstocks. However, the changes of microbial compositions from feedstock to AD digestate are still less understood. We collected feedstock samples from 56 full-scale biogas plants, generated 1,716 Gb feedstock metagenomic data in total, and constructed the first comprehensive microbial gene catalog of feedstock containing 25.2 million genes. Our result indicated that the predominant phyla in feedstock are , , and , which is similar to that in AD digestate, and the microbial diversity of feedstock samples is higher than that of AD digestate samples. In addition, the relative abundance of most genes involved in methanogenesis increase from feedstock to AD digestate. Besides, the amount of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and pathogenic bacteria in AD are effectively reduced compared to feedstocks. This study provides a comprehensive microbial gene catalog of feedstock, and deepens the understanding of variation of microbial communities from feedstock to AD digestate of full-scale AD. The results also suggest the potential of AD to reduce the level of ARGs and pathogens in animal manure.

Metagenomic insights into the effect of thermal hydrolysis pre-treatment on microbial community of an anaerobic digestion system.Thermal hydrolysis process (THP) is an effective pre-treatment method to reduce solids volume and improve biogas production during anaerobic digestion (AD) via increasing the biodegradability of waste activated sludge (WAS). However, the effects of THP pre-treated sludge on microbial diversity, interspecies interactions, and metabolism in AD systems remain largely unknown. We therefore setup and operated an anaerobic digester during a long-term period to shed light on the effect of THP pre-treatment on AD microbial ecology in comparison to conventional AD via Illumina based 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing and genome-centric metagenomics analysis. Results showed THP sludge significantly reduced the microbial diversity, shaped the microbial community structure, and resulted in more intense microbial interactions. Compared to WAS as the feed sludge, THP sludge shaped the core functional groups, but functional redundancy ensured the system's stability. The metabolic interactions between methanogens and syntrophic bacteria as well as the specific metabolic pathways were further elucidated. Hydrogenotrophic methanogens, Methanospirillum sp. and Methanolinea sp., were the primary contributors for methane production when treating THP and WAS, respectively, which also have potential for acetate oxidation to methane. Collectively, this study provides in-depth information on the interspecies interactions to better understand how THP pre-treatment influences AD microbial community.

Molecular Microbial Community Analysis as an Analysis Tool for Optimal Biogas Production.The microbial diversity in anaerobic digestion (AD) is important because it affects process robustness. High-throughput sequencing offers high-resolution data regarding the microbial diversity and robustness of biological systems including AD; however, to understand the dynamics of microbial processes, knowing the microbial diversity is not adequate alone. Advanced meta-omic techniques have been established to determine the activity and interactions among organisms in biological processes like AD. Results of these methods can be used to identify biomarkers for AD states. This can aid a better understanding of system dynamics and be applied to producing comprehensive models for AD. The paper provides valuable knowledge regarding the possibility of integration of molecular methods in AD. Although meta-genomic methods are not suitable for on-line use due to long operating time and high costs, they provide extensive insight into the microbial phylogeny in AD. Meta-proteomics can also be explored in the demonstration projects for failure prediction. However, for these methods to be fully realised in AD, a biomarker database needs to be developed.

Evaluation of acidogenesis products' effect on biogas production performed with metagenomics and isotopic approaches.During the acetogenic step of anaerobic digestion, the products of acidogenesis are oxidized to substrates for methanogenesis: hydrogen, carbon dioxide and acetate. Acetogenesis and methanogenesis are highly interconnected processes due to the syntrophic associations between acetogenic bacteria and hydrogenotrophic methanogens, allowing the whole process to become thermodynamically favorable. The aim of this study is to determine the influence of the dominant acidic products on the metabolic pathways of methane formation and to find a core microbiome and substrate-specific species in a mixed biogas-producing system.
Four methane-producing microbial communities were fed with artificial media having one dominant component, respectively, lactate, butyrate, propionate and acetate, for 896 days in 3.5-L Up-flow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket (UASB) bioreactors. All the microbial communities showed moderately different methane production and utilization of the substrates. Analyses of stable carbon isotope composition of the fermentation gas and the substrates showed differences in average values of δC(CH) and δC(CO) revealing that acetate and lactate strongly favored the acetotrophic pathway, while butyrate and propionate favored the hydrogenotrophic pathway of methane formation. Genome-centric metagenomic analysis recovered 234 Metagenome Assembled Genomes (MAGs), including 31 archaeal and 203 bacterial species, mostly unknown and uncultivable. MAGs accounted for 54%-67% of the entire microbial community (depending on the bioreactor) and evidenced that the microbiome is extremely complex in terms of the number of species. The core microbiome was composed of Methanothrix soehngenii (the most abundant), Methanoculleus sp., unknown Bacteroidales and Spirochaetaceae. Relative abundance analysis of all the samples revealed microbes having substrate preferences. Substrate-specific species were mostly unknown and not predominant in the microbial communities.
In this experimental system, the dominant fermentation products subjected to methanogenesis moderately modified the final effect of bioreactor performance. At the molecular level, a different contribution of acetotrophic and hydrogenotrophic pathways for methane production, a very high level of new species recovered, and a moderate variability in microbial composition depending on substrate availability were evidenced. Propionate was not a factor ceasing methane production. All these findings are relevant because lactate, acetate, propionate and butyrate are the universal products of acidogenesis, regardless of feedstock.

Novel strain-level resolution of Crohn's disease mucosa-associated microbiota via an ex vivo combination of microbe culture and metagenomic sequencing.The mucosa-associated microbiota is widely recognized as a potential trigger for Crohn's disease pathophysiology but remains largely uncharacterised beyond its taxonomic composition. Unlike stool microbiota, the functional characterisation of these communities using current DNA/RNA sequencing approaches remains constrained by the relatively small microbial density on tissue, and the overwhelming amount of human DNA recovered during sample preparation. Here, we have used a novel ex vivo approach that combines microbe culture from anaerobically preserved tissue with metagenome sequencing (MC-MGS) to reveal patient-specific and strain-level differences among these communities in post-operative Crohn's disease patients. The 16 S rRNA gene amplicon profiles showed these cultures provide a representative and holistic representation of the mucosa-associated microbiota, and MC-MGS produced both high quality metagenome-assembled genomes of recovered novel bacterial lineages. The MC-MGS approach also produced a strain-level resolution of key Enterobacteriacea and their associated virulence factors and revealed that urease activity underpins a key and diverse metabolic guild in these communities, which was confirmed by culture-based studies with axenic cultures. Collectively, these findings using MC-MGS show that the Crohn's disease mucosa-associated microbiota possesses taxonomic and functional attributes that are highly individualistic, borne at least in part by novel bacterial lineages not readily isolated or characterised from stool samples using current sequencing approaches.

Enhancing nitrogen removal from anaerobically-digested swine wastewater through integration of Myriophyllum aquaticum and free nitrous acid-based technology in a constructed wetland.Despite of low operation costs and convenient maintenance, the application of natural systems for swine wastewater treatment has been limited by large construction area and unsatisfactory effluent quality. Introducing ammonium high uptake aquatic plants and shifting nitrogen removal pathway from nitrate to nitrite in constructed wetlands (CWs) has been regarded as promising approach to promote their performances. This study aimed to establish nitrite pathway and enhance N removal via free nitrous acid (FNA)-sediment treatment and Myriophyllum aquaticum vegetation in the CWs treating anaerobically digested swine wastewater. Nitrite pathway was successfully and stably achieved in the M. aquaticum CW with FNA-treated sediment. The overall removal efficiencies of ammonium nitrogen and total nitrogen were 42.3 ± 10.2% and 37.7 ± 9.3% in the planted CWs with FNA-treated sediment, which were 76.3% and 65.4% higher than those in the conventional oxidation pond system, respectively. Microbial community analysis (qPCR and metagenomics) suggested that the nitrite pathway established through FNA-sediment treatment was based on the inactivation of nitrite oxidizing bacteria (lower nxrA gene abundance) and the reduction of relative abundances of NOB (especially Nitrobacter and Nitrospira). During the denitrification processes, the integration of M. aquaticum vegetation with FNA-sediment treatment can lower the nitrate reduction by decreasing narG gene abundances and decreasing the relative abundances of napA affiliated bacteria (especially Bradyrhizobium), while strengthening reduction of nitrite and nitrous oxide by increasing nirK and nosZ gene abundances and enriching the corresponding affiliated microbial taxa, Mycobacterium and Bacillus, respectively. Our findings suggest that applying FNA-based technology in CW systems is technically and economically feasible, which holds promise for upgrading current CW systems treating swine wastewater to meet future water quality requirements.

Impact of process temperature and organic loading rate on cellulolytic / hydrolytic biofilm microbiomes during biomethanation of ryegrass silage revealed by genome-centered metagenomics and metatranscriptomics.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of protein-rich grass silage was performed in experimental two-stage two-phase biogas reactor systems at low vs. increased organic loading rates (OLRs) under mesophilic (37 °C) and thermophilic (55 °C) temperatures. To follow the adaptive response of the biomass-attached cellulolytic/hydrolytic biofilms at increasing ammonium/ammonia contents, genome-centered metagenomics and transcriptional profiling based on metagenome assembled genomes (MAGs) were conducted.
In total, 78 bacterial and archaeal MAGs representing the most abundant members of the communities, and featuring defined quality criteria were selected and characterized in detail. Determination of MAG abundances under the tested conditions by mapping of the obtained metagenome sequence reads to the MAGs revealed that MAG abundance profiles were mainly shaped by the temperature but also by the OLR. However, the OLR effect was more pronounced for the mesophilic systems as compared to the thermophilic ones. In contrast, metatranscriptome mapping to MAGs subsequently normalized to MAG abundances showed that under thermophilic conditions, MAGs respond to increased OLRs by shifting their transcriptional activities mainly without adjusting their proliferation rates. This is a clear difference compared to the behavior of the microbiome under mesophilic conditions. Here, the response to increased OLRs involved adjusting of proliferation rates and corresponding transcriptional activities. The analysis led to the identification of MAGs positively responding to increased OLRs. The most outstanding MAGs in this regard, obviously well adapted to higher OLRs and/or associated conditions, were assigned to the order Clostridiales (Acetivibrio sp.) for the mesophilic biofilm and the orders Bacteroidales (Prevotella sp. and an unknown species), Lachnospirales (Herbinix sp. and Kineothrix sp.) and Clostridiales (Clostridium sp.) for the thermophilic biofilm. Genome-based metabolic reconstruction and transcriptional profiling revealed that positively responding MAGs mainly are involved in hydrolysis of grass silage, acidogenesis and / or acetogenesis.
An integrated -omics approach enabled the identification of new AD biofilm keystone species featuring outstanding performance under stress conditions such as increased OLRs. Genome-based knowledge on the metabolic potential and transcriptional activity of responsive microbiome members will contribute to the development of improved microbiological AD management strategies for biomethanation of renewable biomass.

In situ analysis of antibiotic resistance genes in anaerobically digested dairy manure and its subsequent disposal facilities.The metagenomic and quantitative polymerase chain reaction approaches were combined to evaluate the profiles of ARGs and plasmids in anaerobically digested dairy manure in situ and reveal the persistence and elevation of typical ARGs and plasmids in its subsequent disposal facilities in CAFOs, respectively. Our results indicated that the typical ARGs and plasimd were mainly sul2, mefa, tetm-01, tetm-02, tetw, aph3iiia, and clostridioides difficile strain 12,038 plasmid unnamed in CAFOs, some of which greatly enriched in AD residue after its storage, especially sul1 and sul2. Meantime, the AD slurry recycling introduced the bacteria carrying ARGs into soil, especially Romboutsia genus, which greatly enriched sul2, tetm-01, tetm-02, aphiiia, and mefa. In the present study, ARGs occurrence, persistence and distribution were understood through in situ analysis of their profiles during dairy manure AD treatment and subsequent disposals in CAFOs, which are helpful for controlling the potential environmental risks from dairy manure recycling.

Simultaneous Anaerobic and Aerobic Ammonia and Methane Oxidation under Oxygen Limitation Conditions.Methane and ammonia have to be removed from wastewater treatment effluent in order to discharge it to receiving water bodies. A potential solution for this is a combination of simultaneous ammonia and methane oxidation by anaerobic ammonia oxidation (anammox) bacteria and nitrite/nitrate-dependent anaerobic methane oxidation (N-damo) microorganisms. When applied, these microorganisms will be exposed to oxygen, but little is known about the effect of a low concentration of oxygen on a culture containing these microorganisms. In this study, a stable coculture containing anammox and N-damo microorganisms in a laboratory scale bioreactor was established under oxygen limitation. Membrane inlet mass spectrometry (MIMS) was used to directly measure the  simultaneous activity of N-damo, anammox, and aerobic ammonia-oxidizing microorganisms. In addition, batch tests revealed that the bioreactor also harbored aerobic methanotrophs and anaerobic methanogens. Together with fluorescence  hybridization (FISH) analysis and metagenomics, these results indicate that the combination of N-damo and anammox activity under the continuous supply of limiting oxygen concentrations is feasible and can be implemented for the removal of methane and ammonia from anaerobic digester effluents.  Nitrogen in wastewater leads to eutrophication of the receiving water bodies, and methane is a potent greenhouse gas; it is therefore important that these are removed from wastewater. A potential solution for the simultaneous removal of nitrogenous compounds and methane is the application of a combination of nitrite/nitrate-dependent methane oxidation (N-damo) and anaerobic ammonia oxidation (annamox). In order to do so, it is important to investigate the effect of oxygen on these two anaerobic processes. In this study, we investigate the effect of a continuous oxygen supply on the activity of an anaerobic methane- and ammonia-oxidizing coculture. The findings presented in this study are important for the potential application of these two microbial processes in wastewater treatment.

Bacteria Make a Living Breathing the Nitroheterocyclic Insensitive Munitions Compound 3-Nitro-1,2,4-triazol-5-one (NTO).The nitroheterocyclic 3-nitro-1,2,4-triazol-5-one (NTO) is an ingredient of insensitive explosives increasingly used by the military, becoming an emergent environmental pollutant. Cometabolic biotransformation of NTO occurs in mixed microbial cultures in soils and sludges with excess electron-donating substrates. Herein, we present the unusual energy-yielding metabolic process of NTO respiration, in which the NTO reduction to 3-amino-1,2,4-triazol-5-one (ATO) is linked to the anoxic acetate oxidation to CO by a culture enriched from municipal anaerobic digester sludge. Cell growth was observed simultaneously with NTO reduction, whereas the culture was unable to grow in the presence of acetate only. Extremely low concentrations (0.06 mg L) of the uncoupler carbonyl cyanide -chlorophenyl hydrazone inhibited NTO reduction, indicating that the process was linked to respiration. The ultimate evidence of NTO respiration was adenosine triphosphate production due to simultaneous exposure to NTO and acetate. Metagenome sequencing revealed that the main microorganisms (and relative abundances) were  (89.3%) and  sp. (5.5%). This study is the first description of a nitroheterocyclic compound being reduced by anaerobic respiration, shedding light on creative microbial processes that enable bacteria to make a living reducing NTO.

Pharyngeal Microbial Signatures Are Predictive of the Risk of Fungal Pneumonia in Hematologic Patients.The ability to predict invasive fungal infections (IFI) in patients with hematological malignancies is fundamental for successful therapy. Although gut dysbiosis is known to occur in hematological patients, whether airway dysbiosis also contributes to the risk of IFI has not been investigated. Nasal and oropharyngeal swabs were collected for functional microbiota characterization in 173 patients with hematological malignancies recruited in a multicenter, prospective, observational study and stratified according to the risk of developing IFI. A lower microbial richness and evenness were found in the pharyngeal microbiota of high-risk patients that were associated with a distinct taxonomic and metabolic profile. A murine model of IFI provided biologic plausibility for the finding that loss of protective anaerobes, such as  and , along with an apparent restricted availability of tryptophan, is causally linked to the risk of IFI in hematologic patients and indicates avenues for antimicrobial stewardship and metabolic reequilibrium in IFI.

Running after ghosts: are dead bacteria the dark matter of the human gut microbiota?The human gut microbiota has been explored by a wide range of culture-dependent and culture-independent methods, revealing that many microbes remain uncharacterized and uncultured. In this work, we aimed to confirm the hypothesis that some of the species present in the human gut microbiota remain uncultured not because of culture limitations, but because all members of such species are dead before reaching the end of the gastro-intestinal tract.We evaluate this phenomenon by studying the microbial viability and culturability of the human gut microbiota from the fresh fecal materials of eight healthy adults. For the first time, we applied fluorescence-activated cell sorting (FACS) combined with 16S metagenomics analysis and microbial culturomics.We identified a total of 1,020 bacterial OTUs and 495 bacterial isolates through metagenomics and culturomics, respectively. Among the FACS metagenomics results, only 735 bacterial OTUs were alive, comprising on average 42% of known species and 87% of relative abundance per individual. The remaining uncultured bacteria were rare, dead, or injured.Our strategy allowed us to shed light on the dark matter of the human gut microbiota and revealed that both metagenomics and culturomics approaches are needed for greater insight into the diversity and richness of bacteria in the human gut microbiota. Further work on culture is needed to enhance the repertoire of cultured gut bacteria by targeting low abundance bacteria and optimizing anaerobic sample conditioning and processing to preserve the viability of bacteria.

Metagenomic analysis reveals nonylphenol-shaped acidification and methanogenesis during sludge anaerobic digestion.Nonylphenol (NP) is widely known for its estrogenic activity on organisms, but its influence on biochemical processes executed by complex microbiota is still unclear. The dose-specific effects of NP on sludge anaerobic digestion by shaping acidification and methanogenesis were reported. Both low (50 mg/kg) and high (1000 mg/kg) NP doses were beneficial to acidification and aceticlastic methanogenesis (AM), and high NP dose further stimulated hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis (HM). Stable isotope probing analysis indicated that the predominant methanogenic pathway was shifted from AM to a combination of AM and HM as NP dose increased. Acidogenic and methanogenic consortia were accumulated and restructured by NP in favor of acidification and substrate-based methanogenesis. Acidification-related genes for bioconversion of substrates into acetate (glycolysis, stickland reaction and pyruvate metabolism), acetate transportation and microbial robust performance were enriched with both low and high NP doses. Methanogenesis-related genes encoding acetyl-CoA dehydrogenase/synthetase (CODH/ACS) in aceticlastic pathway and transporters for coenzyme synthesis were enhanced by both NP doses. Besides, high NP dose promoted a majority of genes in CO-reduction pathway and key material transporters for coenzyme F420 and heterodisulfide reductase synthesis. This study shed light on complex microbial processes rather than certain organisms affected by NP with dose-specific pattern at genetic level and had implications in resource utilization of sludge containing refractory organics.

A comparative analysis of biogas production from tomato bio-waste in mesophilic batch and continuous anaerobic digestion systems.Annually, agricultural activity produces an enormous amount of plant biomass by-product. Many studies have reported the biomethane potential of agro-industrial wastes, but only a few studies have investigated applying the substrates in both batch and continuous mode. Tomato is one of the most popular vegetables globally; its processing releases a substantial amount of by-product, such as stems and leaves. This study examined the BMP of tomato plant (Solanum lycopersicum Mill. L. cv. Alfred) waste. A comparative test revealed that the BMPs of corn stover, tomato waste,and their combination were approximately the same, around 280 mL methane/g Volatile Solid. In contrast, the relative biogas production decreased in the presence of tomato waste in a continuous mesophilic anaerobic digestion system; the daily biogas productions were 860 ± 80, 290 ± 50, and 570 ± 70 mL biogas/gVolatile Solid/day in the case of corn stover, tomato waste, and their mixture, respectively. The methane content of biogas was around 46-48%. The fermentation parameters of the continuous AD experiments were optimal in all cases; thus, TW might have an inhibitory effect on the microbial community. Tomato plant materials contain e.g. flavonoids, glycoalkaloids (such as tomatine and tomatidine), etc. known as antimicrobial and antifungal agents. The negative effect of tomatine on the biogas yield was confirmed in batch fermentation experiments. Metagenomic analysis revealed that the tomato plant waste caused significant rearrangements in the microbial communities in the continuously operated reactors. The results demonstrated that tomato waste could be a good mono-substrate in batch fermentations or a co-substrate with corn stover in a proper ratio in continuous anaerobic fermentations for biogas production. These results also point to the importance of running long-term continuous fermentations to test the suitability of a novel biomass substrate for industrial biogas production.

Microbial dynamics in biogas digesters treating lipid-rich substrates via genome-centric metagenomics.Co-digestion with lipid-rich substrates is a likely strategy in biogas plants, due to their high energy content. However, the process stability is vulnerable to inhibition due to the sudden increase of fatty-acid concentration. Therefore, techniques that promote the adaptation of the microorganisms to the presence of lipids have been proposed. In this frame, the initial hypothesis of the work was that a gradual change in feedstock composition would enable us to elucidate the microbial organisation as a result of deterministic (i.e. chemical composition of influent) and stochastic (e.g. interspecies interactions) factors. This study investigates the response of the biogas microbiome to gradual increment of the Organic Loading Rate by supplementing the influent feedstock with Na-Oleate. The results showed that as a response to the feedstock shifts three clusters describing microbes behaviours were formed. The dynamics and the functional role of the formed microbial clusters were unveiled, providing explanations for their abundance and behavior. Process monitoring indicated that the reactors responded immediately to lipid supplementation and they managed to stabilize their performance in a short period of time. The dominance of Candidatus Methanoculleus thermohydrogenotrophicum in the biogas reactors fed exclusively with cattle manure indicated that the predominant methanogenic pathway was hydrogenotrophic. Additionally, the abundance of this methanogen was further enhanced upon lipid supplementation and its growth was supported by syntrophic bacteria capable to metabolize fatty acids. However, with the shift back to the original feedstock (i.e. solely cattle manure), the microbial dynamicity significantly altered with a remarkable increment in the abundance of a propionate degrader affiliated to the order of Bacteroidales, which became the predominant microorganism of the consortium.

Insight into the performance and microbial community profiles of magnetite-amended anaerobic digestion: Varying promotion effects at increased loads.In current study, the enhancement effect of magnetite on anaerobic digestion was evaluated at increased organic loading rate (OLR) from 1.6 to 25.6 kg COD·m·d. The supplement of magnetite enhanced the methane yield by 7-483% accompanied with faster VFAs conversion. Microbial analysis suggested the varied enhancing effect achieved at different OLRs was attributed to different syntrophic interactions triggered by magnetite. More specially, an electroactive syntropy was established between Trichococcus with Methanobacterium at OLR lower than 6.4 kg COD·m·d, while with the OLR increase, more acid fermentative bacteria (Propionimicrobium, Syner-01) were enriched and further enhanced methanogenesis in a syntrophic way with Methanosaeta. Overall, the incorporation of magnetite was a promising approach to achieve efficient anaerobic digestion, OLR was also critical factor affecting the methanogenesis and should be carefully regulated in future application.

Genomic and functional analyses of fungal and bacterial consortia that enable lignocellulose breakdown in goat gut microbiomes.The herbivore digestive tract is home to a complex community of anaerobic microbes that work together to break down lignocellulose. These microbiota are an untapped resource of strains, pathways and enzymes that could be applied to convert plant waste into sugar substrates for green biotechnology. We carried out more than 400 parallel enrichment experiments from goat faeces to determine how substrate and antibiotic selection influence membership, activity, stability and chemical productivity of herbivore gut communities. We assembled 719 high-quality metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) that are unique at the species level. More than 90% of these MAGs are from previously unidentified herbivore gut microorganisms. Microbial consortia dominated by anaerobic fungi outperformed bacterially dominated consortia in terms of both methane production and extent of cellulose degradation, which indicates that fungi have an important role in methane release. Metabolic pathway reconstructions from MAGs of 737 bacteria, archaea and fungi suggest that cross-domain partnerships between fungi and methanogens enabled production of acetate, formate and methane, whereas bacterially dominated consortia mainly produced short-chain fatty acids, including propionate and butyrate. Analyses of carbohydrate-active enzyme domains present in each anaerobic consortium suggest that anaerobic bacteria and fungi employ mostly complementary hydrolytic strategies. The division of labour among herbivore anaerobes to degrade plant biomass could be harnessed for industrial bioprocessing.

A microbial gene catalog of anaerobic digestion from full-scale biogas plants.Biogas production with anaerobic digestion (AD) is one of the most promising solutions for both renewable energy production and resolving the environmental problem caused by the worldwide increase in organic waste. However, the complex structure of the microbiome in AD is poorly understood.
In this study, we constructed a microbial gene catalog of AD (22,840,185 genes) based on 1,817 Gb metagenomic data derived from digestate samples of 56 full-scale biogas plants fed with diverse feedstocks. Among the gene catalog, 73.63% and 2.32% of genes were taxonomically annotated to Bacteria and Archaea, respectively, and 57.07% of genes were functionally annotated with KEGG orthologous groups. Our results confirmed the existence of core microbiome in AD and showed that the type of feedstock (cattle, chicken, and pig manure) has a great influence on carbohydrate hydrolysis and methanogenesis. In addition, 2,426 metagenome-assembled genomes were recovered from all digestate samples, and all genomes were estimated to be ≥80% complete with ≤10% contamination.
This study deepens our understanding of the microbial composition and function in the AD process and also provides a huge number of reference genome and gene resources for analysis of anaerobic microbiota.

Dynamics and Complexity of Dark Fermentation Microbial Communities Producing Hydrogen From Sugar Beet Molasses in Continuously Operating Packed Bed Reactors.This study describes the dynamics and complexity of microbial communities producing hydrogen-rich fermentation gas from sugar-beet molasses in five packed-bed reactors (PBRs). The bioreactors constitute a part of a system producing hydrogen from the by-products of the sugar-beet industry that has been operating continuously in one of the Polish sugar factories. PBRs with different working volumes, packing materials, construction and inocula were tested. This study focused on analysis (based on 16S rRNA profiling and shotgun metagenomics sequencing) of the microbial communities selected in the PBRs under the conditions of high (>100 cm/g COD of molasses) and low (<50 cm/g COD of molasses) efficiencies of hydrogen production. The stability and efficiency of the hydrogen production are determined by the composition of dark fermentation microbial communities. The most striking difference between the tested samples is the ratio of hydrogen producers to lactic acid bacteria. The highest efficiency of hydrogen production (130-160 cm/g COD of molasses) was achieved at the ratios of HPB to LAB ≈ 4:2.5 or 2.5:1 as determined by 16S rRNA sequencing or shotgun metagenomics sequencing, respectively. The most abundant  species were  and  A multiple predominance of LAB over HPB (3:1-4:1) or clostridia over LAB (5:1-60:1) results in decreased hydrogen production. Inhibition of hydrogen production was illustrated by overproduction of short chain fatty acids and ethanol. Furthermore, concentration of ethanol might be a relevant marker or factor promoting a metabolic shift in the DF bioreactors processing carbohydrates from hydrogen-yielding toward lactic acid fermentation or solventogenic pathways. The novelty of this study is identifying a community balance between hydrogen producers and lactic acid bacteria for stable hydrogen producing systems. The balance stems from long-term selection of hydrogen-producing microbial community, operating conditions such as bioreactor construction, packing material, hydraulic retention time and substrate concentration. This finding is confirmed by additional analysis of the proportions between HPB and LAB in dark fermentation bioreactors from other studies. The results contribute to the advance of knowledge in the area of relationships and nutritional interactions especially the cross-feeding of lactate between bacteria in dark fermentation microbial communities.

Lignin intermediates lead to phenyl acid formation and microbial community shifts in meso- and thermophilic batch reactors.Lignin intermediates resulting from lignocellulose degradation have been suspected to hinder anaerobic mineralisation of organic materials to biogas. Phenyl acids like phenylacetate (PAA) are early detectable intermediates during anaerobic digestion (AD) of aromatic compounds. Studying the phenyl acid formation dynamics and concomitant microbial community shifts can help to understand the microbial interdependencies during AD of aromatic compounds and may be beneficial to counteract disturbances.
The length of the aliphatic side chain and chemical structure of the benzene side group(s) had an influence on the methanogenic system. PAA, phenylpropionate (PPA), and phenylbutyrate (PBA) accumulations showed that the respective lignin intermediate was degraded but that there were metabolic restrictions as the phenyl acids were not effectively processed. Metagenomic analyses confirmed that mesophilic genera like Fastidiosipila or Syntrophomonas and thermophilic genera like Lactobacillus, Bacillus, Geobacillus, and Tissierella are associated with phenyl acid formation. Acetoclastic methanogenesis was prevalent in mesophilic samples at low and medium overload conditions, whereas Methanoculleus spp. dominated at high overload conditions when methane production was restricted. In medium carbon load reactors under thermophilic conditions, syntrophic acetate oxidation (SAO)-induced hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis was the most important process despite the fact that acetoclastic methanogenesis would thermodynamically be more favourable. As acetoclastic methanogens were restricted at medium and high overload conditions, syntrophic acetate oxidising bacteria and their hydrogenotrophic partners could step in for acetate consumption.
PAA, PPA, and PBA were early indicators for upcoming process failures. Acetoclastic methanogens were one of the first microorganisms to be impaired by aromatic compounds, and shifts to syntrophic acetate oxidation coupled to hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis occurred in thermophilic reactors. Previously assumed associations of specific meso- and thermophilic genera with anaerobic phenyl acid formation could be confirmed.

2
Effects of higher temperature on antibiotic resistance genes for in-situ biogas upgrading reactors with H addition.In-situ biogas upgrading by H injection is a promising method for bio-natural gas production, yet the effect of H addition on antibiotic resistance genes during the in-situ biogas upgrading process remains unknown. We analyzed mesophilic and thermophilic in-situ biogas upgrading digesters with intermittent or continuous mixing models using metagenomic and metatranscriptomic methods to evaluate the effects of H addition on antibiotic resistance profiles. We found that H addition had less impact in the mesophilic reactor. In the thermophilic reactor, the influenced antibiotic resistance ontology (AROs) was mostly bound to the integral membrane transporters of the ATP-binding cassette and major facilitator superfamily. The annotated gene numbers of four drug classes, including macrolide, glycopeptide, lincosamide, and fluoroquinolone, increased distinctly after H addition. Acetate concentration is a vital indicator for distinguishing the abundance of different antibiotic efflux pumps. Most of the AROs influenced by Ruminiclostridium replaced the original dominant species Clostridium, and the versatile genus Methanosarcina was the sole methanogen correlated with the altered AROs of efflux pumps conferring antibiotic resistance. The introduced H was synthesized to CHvia the hydrogenotrophic pathway of Methanosarcina flavescens, and part of the consumed H was used for cell growth.

On-Site Blackwater Treatment Fosters Microbial Groups and Functions to Efficiently and Robustly Recover Carbon and Nutrients.Wastewater is considered a renewable resource water and energy. An advantage of decentralized sanitation systems is the separation of the blackwater (BW) stream, contaminated with human pathogens, from the remaining household water. However, the composition and functions of the microbial community in BW are not known. In this study, we used shotgun metagenomics to assess the dynamics of microbial community structure and function throughout a new BW anaerobic digestion system installed at The Netherlands Institute of Ecology. Samples from the influent (BW), primary effluent (anaerobic digested BW), sludge and final effluent of the pilot upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor and microalgae pilot tubular photobioreactor (PBR) were analyzed. Our results showed a decrease in microbial richness and diversity followed by a decrease in functional complexity and co-occurrence along the different modules of the bioreactor. The microbial diversity and function decrease were reflected both changes in substrate composition and wash conditions. Our wastewater treatment system also decreased microbial functions related to pathogenesis. In summary, the new sanitation system studied here fosters microbial groups and functions that allow the system to efficiently and robustly recover carbon and nutrients while reducing pathogenic groups, ultimately generating a final effluent safe for discharge and reuse.

Metagenomic and bioanalytical insights into quorum sensing of methanogens in anaerobic digestion systems with or without the addition of conductive filter.Understanding microbial interactions in the methanogenesis system through quorum sensing (QS) is very important for system optimization. Known QS genes were collected and classified into seven groups based on the signal molecules, which were used for constructing a hierarchical quorum sensing database (QSDB). QSDB containing 39,981 QS genes of seven QS groups was constructed and QS genes were analyzed with QSDB. Methanogen genomes were aligned with QSDB and acyl-homoserine lactones (AHLs) system was predicted as the most probable QS system. This database was further applied to analyze QS in methanogens from two upflow anaerobic sludge blanket-anaerobic filter hybrid reactors with conductive filter (CFB) and nonconductive filter (SEP), and a control without filter (CON). The maximum COD degradation rates in CFB (722.2 ± 10.1 mg/L·h) was elevated by 42.9% compared to CON (505.4 ± 5.98 mg/L·h). Metagenomic sequencing revealed Methanosaeta, Methanobacterium, and Methanosarcina were dominant, and the abundances was 4.3 times higher in the sludge of CFB compared to CON. The overall abundance of QS genes was CFB > SEP > CON, and AHLs were the most abundant group of QS genes. The filI/filR system, a luxI/luxR homolog, was firstly detected in methanogens, showing a high abundance in the CFB (0.085%) compared to in the CON (0.058%). The concentration of AHL molecules in CFB biofilms (0.04%) was about four times that in the CON (0.01%). Syntrophobacter and Smithella were the two major syntrophic bacteria of methanogens, and their abundances were positively correlated with methanogens. In addition, Syntrophobacter and Smithella harbored QS RpfB (component of the diffusible signal factor system) and PDE (component of cyclic di-GMP system). This study provides useful guidance for deeply understanding of QS in anaerobic digestion systems.

New insights into the effect of ethanol and volatile fatty acids proportions on methanogenic activities and pathways.During anaerobic digestion, methanogenic activities and pathways can be affected by intermediates. Here, the effects of intermediates acetate, propionate, and ethanol on methanogenesis were investigated. Four anaerobic sequencing batch reactors were acclimated with propionate (ASBR_P), ethanol/propionate (ASBR_EP), acetate/propionate (ASBR_AP), and ethanol/acetate/propionate (ASBR_EAP). Ethanol was the easiest one to be biodegraded, thereby enhancing the maximum methane production rate and shortening the lag phase, while the longest acclimation time and lowest methane production rate were observed in ASBR_P. Different microbial communities and syntrophic patterns existed in four reactors. Desulfovibrio and Geobacter were the dominant ethanol-oxidizing bacteria in ASBR_EP and ASBR_EAP, respectively. Both Desulfovibrio and Geobacter possessed the potential of extracellular electron transfer, which might be the advantage of ethanol dosage for enhancing methanogenesis through direct interspecies electron transfer. Methanosarcina was enriched in ASBR_P and ASBR_AP, while Methanosaeta in ASBR_EP and ASBR_EAP. Genes responsible for acetoclastic methanogenesis were significantly enriched in ASBR_EAP, possibly resulting in the highest methanogenic activity from acetate. Results from this study will advance the optimization of practical anaerobic systems, which can be achieved by regulating the intermediates with different fermenting pathways.

Synergistic association between cytochrome bd-encoded Proteiniphilum and reactive oxygen species (ROS)-scavenging methanogens in microaerobic-anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic biomass.Intermittent (every other day) microaerobic [picomolar oxygen by oxidation-reduction potential (ORP) set at +25 mV above anaerobic baseline] digestion of lignocellulosic biomass showed higher digestibility and better stability at a high organic loading rate (OLR) of 5 g volatile solids (VS)/L/d than that under strict anaerobic conditions. However, the microbial mechanisms supporting the delicate balance under microaeration remain underexplored. On the basis of our previous findings that microbial communities in replicate experiments were dominated by strains of the genus Proteiniphilum but contained diverse taxa of methanogenic archaea, here we recovered related genomes and reconstructed the putative metabolic pathways using a genome-centric metagenomic approach. The highly enriched Proteiniphilum strains were identified as efficient cellulolytic facultative bacterium, which directly degraded lignocellulose to carbon dioxide, formate, and acetate via aerobic respiration and anaerobic fermentation, alternatively. Moreover, high oxygen affinity cytochromes, bd-type terminal oxidases, in Proteiniphilum strains were found to be closely associated with such picomolar oxygen conditions, which has long been overlooked in anaerobic digestion. Furthermore, hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis was the prevalent pathway for methane production while Methanosarcina, Methanobrevibacter, and Methanocorpusculum were the dominant methanogens in the replicate experiments. Importantly, the two functional groups, namely cellulolytic facultative Proteiniphilum strains and methanogens, encoded various antioxidant enzymes. Energy-dependent reactive oxygen species (ROS) scavengers (superoxide reductase (SOR) and rubrerythrin (rbr) were ubiquitously present in different methanogenic taxa in response to replicate-specific ORP levels (-470, -450 and -475 mV). Collectively, cytochrome bd oxidase and ROS defenders may play roles in improving the digestibility and stability observed in intermittent microaerobic digestion.

Metagenomic analysis reveals the fate of antibiotic resistance genes in two-stage and one-stage anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge.Waste activated sludge (WAS) from wastewater treatment plants is an important reservoir of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs). The fate of ARGs in this process was not revealed previously. The present study applied metagenomic approach to examine the occurrence and fate of ARGs in thermophilic alkaline fermentation followed by mesophilic anaerobic digestion (TM), by comparison with mesophilic alkaline fermentation followed by mesophilic anaerobic digestion (MM) and one-stage mesophilic anaerobic digestion (M) process. The removal efficiency of two-stage anaerobic digestion (AD) to total ARGs is higher than that of one-stage AD. The hydrogen and methane production stages of two-stage AD processes have dissimilar impact on the fate of ARGs. Macrolide, lincosamide, and streptogramin (MLS) resistance genes were enriched, especially in the hydrogen production reactors of TM and MM processes. Statistical analysis of metagenomic profiles analysis suggested that bacA may be the differential ARG subtype of two-stage AD process. ARG-like sequences encoding antibiotic efflux pump, antibiotic inactivation and antibiotic target alteration mechanisms were identified as the dominant ARGs resistance mechanisms in all samples. Procrustes analysis showed that microbial community composition structured the resistome. Co-occurrence patterns between ARGs and microbial phylogeny revealed that 26 bacterial species might be potential hosts of 94 ARG subtypes.

Distribution patterns of antibiotic resistance genes and their bacterial hosts in pig farm wastewater treatment systems and soil fertilized with pig manure.Vast reservoirs of antibiotic resistance genes (ARG) are discharged into the environment via pig manure. We used metagenomic analysis to follow the distribution and shifts of ARGs and their bacterial hosts along wastewater treatment in three large pig farms. The predominating ARGs potentially encoded resistance to tetracycline (28.13%), aminoglycosides (23.64%), macrolide-lincosamide-streptogramin (MLS) (12.17%), sulfonamides (11.53%), multidrug (8.74%) and chloramphenicol (6.18%). The total relative ARG abundance increased along the treatment pathway prior to anaerobic digestion that had a similar degradative capacity for different ARGs and these ARGs were reduced by about 25% after digestion, but ARGs enriched erratically in manured soils. Distinctive ARG distribution patterns were found according to the three sample locations; feces, soil and wastewater and the differences were primarily due to the tetracycline ARGs (feces > wastewater > soil), sulfonamide ARGs (soil > wastewater > feces) and MLS ARGs (feces > wastewater > soil). Metagenomic assembly-based host analyses indicated the Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria and Bacteroidetes were primary ARG carriers. The Streptococcaceae increased the abundance of multidrug, MLS and aminoglycoside ARGs in feces; Moraxellaceae were the primary contributors to the high abundance of multidrug ARGs in wastewater; the Comamonadaceae led to the higher abundance of bacA in wastewater and soil than feces. We found a high level of heterogeneity for both ARGs and ARG-hosts in the wastewater treatment system and in the agricultural soils for these pig farms.

Metagenomic and Metatranscriptomic Analyses Revealed Uncultured Bacteroidales Populations as the Dominant Proteolytic Amino Acid Degraders in Anaerobic Digesters.Current understanding of amino acid (AA) degraders in anaerobic digesters is mainly based on cultured species, whereas microorganisms that play important roles in a complex microbial community remain poorly characterized. This study investigated short-term enrichments degrading single AAs using metagenomics and metatranscriptomics. Metagenomic analysis revealed that populations related to cultured AA degraders had an abundance <2.5% of the sequences. In contrast, metagenomic-assembled bins related to uncultured  collectively accounted for >35% of the sequences. Phylogenetic analyses suggested that these  populations represented a yet-to-be characterized family lineage, i.e.,  vadinHA17. The bins possessed the genetic capacity related to protein degradation, including surface adhesion (3-7 genes), secreted peptidase (52-77 genes), and polypeptide-specific transporters (2-5 genes). Furthermore, metatranscriptomics revealed that these  populations expressed the complete metabolic pathways for degrading 16 to 17 types of AAs in enrichments fed with respective substrates. These characteristics were distinct from cultured AA degraders including  and , suggesting the uncultured  were the major protein-hydrolyzing and AA-degrading populations. These uncultured  were further found to be dominant and active in full-scale anaerobic digesters, indicating their important ecological roles in the native habitats. " Aminobacteroidaceae" was proposed to represent the previously uncharted family  vadinHA17.

Microbial communities network analysis of anaerobic reactors fed with bovine and swine slurry.Anaerobic digestion can produce biogas as an eco-friendly energy source, driven by a microbial community-dependent process and, as such, suffer influences from many biotic and abiotic factors. Understanding the players and how they interact, the mechanisms involved, what the factors are, and how they influence the biogas process and production is an important way to better control it and make it more efficient. Metagenomic approach is a powerful tool to assess microbial diversity and further, allow correlating changes in microbial communities with multiple factors in virtually all environments. In the present study, we used metagenomic approach to assess microbial community structure changes in two biodigesters, differing in their biogas production capacity, architecture, and feed. A total of 1,440,096 reads of the 16S rRNA gene V4 region were obtained and analyzed. The main bacterial phyla were Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes in both biodigesters, but the biodiversity was greater in the Upflow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket (UASB) reactor fed with bovine manure than in the Continuous Stirred Tank Reactor (CSTR) fed with swine manure, which also correlated with an increase in biogas or methane production. Microbial community structure associated with biodigesters changed seasonally and depended on animal growth stage. Random forest algorithm analysis revealed key microbial taxa for each biodigester. Candidatus Cloacomonas, Methanospirillum, and Methanosphaera were the marker taxa for UASB and the archaea groups Methanobrevibacter and Candidatus Methanoplasma were the marker taxa for CSTR. A high abundance of Candidatus Methanoplasma and Marinimicrobia SAR406 clade suggested lower increments in methane production. Network analysis pointed to negative and positive associations and specific key groups, essential in maintaining the anaerobic digestion (AD) process, as being uncultured Parcubacteria bacteria, Candidatus Cloacomonas, and Candidatus Methanoplasma groups, whose functions in AD require investigation.

Characterization of digestate microbial community structure following thermophilic anaerobic digestion with varying levels of green and food wastes.The properties of digestates generated through anaerobic digestion are influenced by interactions between the digester microbial communities, feedstock properties and digester operating conditions. This study investigated the effect of varying initial feedstock carbon to nitrogen (C/N) ratios on digestate microbiota and predicted abundance of genes encoding lignocellulolytic activity. The C/N ratio had a significant impact on the digestate microbiome. Feedstocks with intermediate C/N ratio (20-27) (where higher biomethane potential was observed) showed higher relative abundance of archaea compared to feedstocks with C/N ratios at 17 and 34. Within microbial networks, four microbial clusters and eight connector microorganisms changed significantly with the C/N ratio (P < 0.05). Feedstocks with C/N < 23 were richer in organisms from the family Thermotogaceae and genus Caldicoprobacter and enhanced potential for degradation of maltose, galactomannans, melobiose and lactose. This study provides new insights into how anaerobic digestion conditions relate to the structure and functional potential of digester microbial communities, which may be relevant to both digester performance and subsequent utilization of digestates for composting or amending soil.

Anaerobic mono and co-digestion of organic fraction of municipal solid waste and landfill leachate at industrial scale: Impact of volatile organic loading rate on reaction kinetics, biogas yield and microbial diversity.The present study was aimed to demonstrate a semi-commercial biomethanation plant based on anaerobic gas lift reactor (AGR) for the mono and co-digestion of organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) and landfill leachate (LL) for 47 weeks. The reactors were commissioned at a volatile organic loading rate (VOLR) starting from 0.4 to 6.2 kg VS/(m·day) to investigate the impact of VOLR on the organic matter removal rates, substrate utilization rate using Stover-Kincannon reaction kinetics, biogas yield and microbial diversity. 16s-metagenomic sequencing of the species present in the inoculum that was acclimatized with OFMSW, LL separately and in combination was also performed to identify the dominant microbial species in the mixed microbial consortia. Results revealed that the VS reduction in AGR 1, AGR 2 and AGR 3 at full load was 46%, 42% and 47% respectively with a corresponding biogas generation of 73.8 m/day, 42 m/day and 60.8 m/day. The biodegradability in AGR 1 was between 73% and 81% whereas in AGR 2 and AGR 3, it was between 57% and 78% and 64% and 86% respectively. The operational strategy of digestate recirculation facilitated in the reduced usage of buffering chemicals which impacted on overall financials of the plant. The techno-economic analysis suggests that these kinds of biomethanation plants are remunerative.

New insight into microbial degradation of mycotoxins during anaerobic digestion.Anaerobic digestion represents an interesting approach to produce biogas from organic waste materials contaminated by mycotoxins. In this study a shotgun metagenomic analysis of lab-scale bioreactors fed with mycotoxin-contaminated silage has been carried out to characterize the evolution of microbial community under the operating conditions and the key enzymatic activities responsible for mycotoxin degradation. The study was conducted at two different level of contamination for fumonisins and aflatoxin B. After 15 days biogas production was not influenced by the presence of mycotoxins. Metagenomic analysis revealed that a high contamination rate of mycotoxins interfere with microbial diversity. Degradation of mycotoxins accounted in about 54% for aflatoxin B and 60% for fumonisins. The degradation activity of fumonisins resulted in the presence of partially hydrolyzed forms in both tested contamination levels. Accordingly, metagenomic functional analysis revealed the presence of two new carboxylesterase genes belonging to D. bacterium and P. bacterium putatively involved in fumonisin degradation.

Interrelationships of Fiber-Associated Anaerobic Fungi and Bacterial Communities in the Rumen of Bloated Cattle Grazing Alfalfa.Frothy bloat is major digestive disorder of cattle grazing alfalfa pastures. Among the many factors identified to contribute to the development of frothy bloat, the disruption of rumen microbiota appears to be of central importance. Anaerobic rumen fungi (ARF) play an important role in sequential breakdown and fermentation of plant polysaccharides and promote the physical disruption of plant cell walls. In the present study, we investigated the dynamics of ARF during the development of alfalfa-induced frothy bloat and in response to bloat preventive treatments. By sequencing the internal transcribed spacer （ITS1）region of metagenomic DNA from the solid fraction of rumen contents, we were able to identify eight distinct genera of ARF, including , , , , , ,  and unclassified Neocallimastigaceae. Overall, transition of steers from a baseline hay diet to alfalfa pastures was associated with drastic changes in the composition of the fungal community, but the overall composition of ARF did not differ ( > 0.05) among bloated and non-bloated steers. A correlation network analysis of the proportion of ARF and ruminal bacterial communities identified hub fungal species that were negatively correlated with several bacterial species, suggesting the presence of inter-kingdom competition among these rumen microorganisms. Interestingly, the number of negative correlations among ARF and bacteria decreased with frothy bloat, indicating a potential disruption of normal microbial profiles within a bloated rumen ecosystem. A better understanding of fungal-bacterial interactions that differ among bloated and non-bloated rumen ecosystem could advance our understanding of the etiology of frothy bloat.

Effect of Clinoptilolite and Halloysite Addition on Biogas Production and Microbial Community Structure during Anaerobic Digestion.The study presents a comparison of the influence of a clinoptilolite-rich rock-zeolite (commonly used for improving anaerobic digestion processes)-and a highly porous clay mineral, halloysite (mainly used for gas purification), on the biogas production process. Batch experiments showed that the addition of each mineral increased the efficiency of mesophilic anaerobic digestion of both sewage sludge and maize silage. However, halloysite generated 15% higher biogas production during maize silage transformation. Halloysite also contributed to a much higher reduction of chemical oxygen demand for both substrates (by ~8% for maize silage and ~14% for sewage sludge) and a higher reduction of volatile solids and total ammonia for maize silage (by ~8% and ~4%, respectively). Metagenomic analysis of the microbial community structure showed that the addition of both mineral sorbents influenced the presence of key members of archaea and bacteria occurring in a well-operated biogas reactor. The significant difference between zeolite and halloysite is that the latter promoted the immobilization of key methanogenic archaea  (belong to  class). Based on this result, we postulate that halloysite could be useful not only as a sorbent for (bio)gas treatment methodologies but also as an agent for improving biogas production.

Revealing metabolic mechanisms of interaction in the anaerobic digestion microbiome by flux balance analysis.Anaerobic digestion is a key biological process for renewable energy, yet the mechanistic knowledge on its hidden microbial dynamics is still limited. The present work charted the interaction network in the anaerobic digestion microbiome via the full characterization of pairwise interactions and the associated metabolite exchanges. To this goal, a novel collection of 836 genome-scale metabolic models was built to represent the functional capabilities of bacteria and archaea species derived from genome-centric metagenomics. Dominant microbes were shown to prefer mutualistic, parasitic and commensalistic interactions over neutralism, amensalism and competition, and are more likely to behave as metabolite importers and profiteers of the coexistence. Additionally, external hydrogen injection positively influences microbiome dynamics by promoting commensalism over amensalism. Finally, exchanges of glucogenic amino acids were shown to overcome auxotrophies caused by an incomplete tricarboxylic acid cycle. Our novel strategy predicted the most favourable growth conditions for the microbes, overall suggesting strategies to increasing the biogas production efficiency. In principle, this approach could also be applied to microbial populations of biomedical importance, such as the gut microbiome, to allow a broad inspection of the microbial interplays.

An effective culturomics approach to study the gut microbiota of mammals.The microbial characterization of the mammal's gut is an emerging research area, wherein culturomics methodologies applied to human samples are transposed to the animal context without improvement. In this work, using Egyptian mongoose as a model, we explore wet bench conditions to define an effective experimental design based on culturomics and DNA barcoding with potential application to different mammal species. After testing a battery of solid media and enrichments, we show that YCFA-based media, in aerobic and anaerobic conditions, together with PDA supplemented with chloramphenicol, are sufficient to maximize bacterial and fungal microbiota diversity. The pasteurization of the sample enrichment before cultivation is central to gain insight into sporogenic communities. We suggest the application of this optimized culturomics strategy to accurately expand knowledge on the microbial richness of mammals' gut, maximizing the application of common laboratory resources, without dramatic time and consumables expenditure but with high resolution of microbial landscapes. The analysis of ten fecal samples proved adequate to assess the core gastrointestinal microbiota of the mesocarnivore under analysis. This approach may empower most microbiology laboratories, particularly the veterinary, to perform studies on mammal's microbiota, and, in contrast with metagenomics, enabling the recovery of live bacteria for further studies.

Biopolymers modulate microbial communities in municipal organic waste digestion.The development of biopolymers has raised issues about their recalcitrance in the environment. Their disposal is mainly carried out with the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) through thermophilic anaerobic digestion and aerobic composting, bioprocesses aimed at turning organic matter into biogas and compost. However, the effects of biopolymers on OFMSW treatment, on the final compost and on the microbial communities involved are partly unexplored. In this study, the OFMSW treatment was reproduced on a laboratory-scale respecting real plant conditions and testing the impacts of mixing polylactic acid (PLA) and starch-based bioplastic (SBB) separately. The dynamics of bacterial, archaeal and fungal communities during the process was screened by high-throughput sequencing (HTS) of phylogenetic amplicons. Starch-based bioplastic showed a minor and heterogeneous microbial diversity between the anaerobic and aerobic phases. Contrariwise, PLA treatment resulted in wider and more diverse bacterial and fungal communities for the compost and the aerobic biofilm. Since the biodiversity in compost may play a crucial role in its stability and safety, the modulation of environmental microbial communities induced by higher concentrations of PLA in OFMSW treatment can pose relevant issues.

Physicochemical stressors and mixed alkaloid supplementation modulate ruminal microbiota and fermentation in vitro.The drop of ruminal pH and heat are common physicochemical stressors challenging ruminal microbiota, nutrient digestion and cattle performance. We characterized the ruminal microbiota and digestive activity in response to different pH (6.0 and 6.6) and temperature (39.5 and 42 °C), as well as established the effective dose of alkaloid supplementation (0, 0.088 and 0.175% of feedstock DM) to modulate ruminal fermentation under these conditions. The acidotic condition decreased microbial diversity and abundances of minor bacterial families whereas most of the highly abundant families like Lactobacillaceae, Prevotellaceae, and Bifidobacteriaceae thrived under the stress. Abundances of all three methanogenic archaea taxa detected increased with heat, as did methane production. However, while Methanomassiliicoccaceae benefited from the low pH, Methanomicrobiaceae diminished and methane production decreased. The low dose of alkaloid addition shifted the fermentation to more propionate and less acetate and the high dose decreased methane and ammonia concentration under the low pH. In conclusion, physicochemical stressors shape the microbial community and function. Mixed alkaloid supplementation facilitates the activity of rumen microbial community under acidotic stress.

The cultivable microbiota of the human distal ileum.The existing literature on the microbiota of the ileum is inconsistent. To further characterize the microbiota, we analysed samples obtained directly from resected ileums used for urinary diversion after radical cystectomy.
We included 150 patients with bladder cancer operated on from March 2016 to March 2019. Samples obtained by rubbing a swab against the ileal mucosa 25 cm from the ileocecal valve were cultivated at the local laboratory. Microbial colonies were identified by matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization-time of flight mass spectrometry (MALDI-TOF).
The microbial density of the distal ileum was low. Among our samples, 79% (95% confidence interval (CI) 71%, 84%) harboured less than 1.6 × 10 cfu/mL, whereas 36% (95% CI 28%, 44%) harboured less than 1.6 × 10 cfu/mL. The flora was dominated by viridans streptococci, Candida, Actinomyces, Rothia and Lactobacillus species. Colon-related bacteria i.e. strict anaerobic bacteria, Enterobacteriales and enterococci, were recovered from 14% of the samples. Constipation was associated with increased recovery of colon-related bacteria. Antibiotic treatment prior to surgical procedures did not affect culture results. Increased age was significantly associated with more substantial fungal growth and use of proton pump inhibitors seemed to increase both bacterial and fungal growth.
The microbiota of the human distal ileum is sparse and differs significantly from the colonic microbiota both quantitatively and by composition. These findings contradict recent metagenomics studies based on samples collected by retrograde colonoscopy and emphasize the crucial importance of adequate sampling techniques.

Ammonia stress decreased biomarker genes of acetoclastic methanogenesis and second peak of production rates during anaerobic digestion of swine manure.Research shows that anaerobic digestion could acclimate to ammonia stress; however, the acclimation remained unaddressed. In this study, evolution of microbial community, functional gene, and pathway was linked with apparent kinetic and performance in unacclimated inoculum under ammonia stress, to deepen understanding of the acclimation. The second peak in production rate demonstrated crucial kinetic changes under ammonia stress. The methane loss was mainly protein in residual COD. Metagenomic showed initial inhibition in all methane metabolism pathways under ammonia stress, and recovery in acetate uptake was the key to ammonia acclimation. The acclimation was found in alternative pathway of Acetyl-CoA (CHCO-S-CoA) synthesis from acetate, accompanying by syntrophic methanogenesis. Ammonia inhibited acetoclastic methanogenesis by competing CH-CO-P with pta and formed speculative sediment CH-CO-PO[NH]. Biomarker of methanogenesis kinetic was suggested as mcr, hdr, and mch. The biomarker could indicate acclimation stages to ammonia, empowering anaerobic digestion by early warning of methane loss.

Metagenome Sequences of a Wastewater Treatment Plant Digester Sludge-Derived Enrichment Culture.We sequenced the metagenome of a microbial community enriched under strictly anaerobic conditions from wastewater treatment plant-derived digester sludge. The metagenomic analysis of the enrichment revealed that  and methanogenic archaea belonged to the dominant prokaryotes, and genes encoding components of the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway were identified.

Effect of mesophilic anaerobic digestion on the resistome profile of dairy manure.The effect of mesophilic anaerobic digestion (AD) on the resistome profile of manures from two different dairy farms was evaluated using a metagenomic approach. A total of 187 unique Antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) for 17 different classes of antibiotics were detected in raw (undigested) manures. The results indicate that regardless of the origin of the dairy manure, mesophilic AD was capable of reducing or enriching the relative abundance of some ARGs. The main driver of these changes was strongly correlated with the evolution of the microbial community during the AD process. Putative ARG hosts were suggested by analyses of the co-occurrence of microbial groups and ARGs. Finally, network analyses revealed that mesophilic AD could also reduce the co-occurrence of different groups of ARGs potentially located in the same genetic elements. Our results provide valuable insights into the microbial mechanisms driving the diversity and abundance of ARGs during mesophilic AD.

Catabolism and interactions of uncultured organisms shaped by eco-thermodynamics in methanogenic bioprocesses.Current understanding of the carbon cycle in methanogenic environments involves trophic interactions such as interspecies H transfer between organotrophs and methanogens. However, many metabolic processes are thermodynamically sensitive to H accumulation and can be inhibited by H produced from co-occurring metabolisms. Strategies for driving thermodynamically competing metabolisms in methanogenic environments remain unexplored.
To uncover how anaerobes combat this H conflict in situ, we employ metagenomics and metatranscriptomics to revisit a model ecosystem that has inspired many foundational discoveries in anaerobic ecology-methanogenic bioreactors. Through analysis of 17 anaerobic digesters, we recovered 1343 high-quality metagenome-assembled genomes and corresponding gene expression profiles for uncultured lineages spanning 66 phyla and reconstructed their metabolic capacities. We discovered that diverse uncultured populations can drive H-sensitive metabolisms through (i) metabolic coupling with concurrent H-tolerant catabolism, (ii) forgoing H generation in favor of interspecies transfer of formate and electrons (cytochrome- and pili-mediated) to avoid thermodynamic conflict, and (iii) integration of low-concentration O metabolism as an ancillary thermodynamics-enhancing electron sink. Archaeal populations support these processes through unique methanogenic metabolisms-highly favorable H oxidation driven by methyl-reducing methanogenesis and tripartite uptake of formate, electrons, and acetate.
Integration of omics and eco-thermodynamics revealed overlooked behavior and interactions of uncultured organisms, including coupling favorable and unfavorable metabolisms, shifting from H to formate transfer, respiring low-concentration O, performing direct interspecies electron transfer, and interacting with high H-affinity methanogenesis. These findings shed light on how microorganisms overcome a critical obstacle in methanogenic carbon cycles we had hitherto disregarded and provide foundational insight into anaerobic microbial ecology. Video Abstract.

Identification of sulfate-reducing and methanogenic microbial taxa in anaerobic bioreactors from industrial wastewater treatment plants using next-generation sequencing and gene clone library analyses.An understanding of microbial communities present in anaerobic bioreactors can strongly facilitate the development of approaches to control undesirable microorganisms, such as sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB), in the system. In this study, overall microbial communities present in anaerobic bioreactors from seven industrial wastewater treatment plants (including food, pulp and paper industries) were investigated using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing (MiSeq, Illumina). The dominant methanogens identified in the anaerobic bioreactors treating industrial wastewater were  and ;  was a predominant methanogen in the anaerobic sludge digester. Hydrogenotrophic and acetoclastic methanogens were detected at similar relative abundances in the anaerobic covered lagoons treating starch wastewater, whereas hydrogenotrophic methanogens were the predominant methanogens present in the sludge digester. SRB communities were further investigated using dsrB gene clone libraries. The results indicated the presence of SRB, such as uncultured  sp., ,  sp. PtaB.Bin027, and  Incomplete-oxidizing SRB were the predominant SRB in all of the anaerobic bioreactors treating wastewater. In contrast, similar relative abundances of complete and incomplete-oxidizing SRB were observed in the sludge digester. The results of this study can further facilitate the development of SRB-controlling strategies to improve the efficiency of wastewater treatment.

Long-term enrichment of anaerobic propionate-oxidizing consortia: Syntrophic culture development and growth optimization.Propionate is a quantitatively important methanogenic intermediate in anaerobic digesters and only limited number of microbes can utilize it under syntrophic association with methanogens. The syntrophic propionate oxidizing bacterias are known to be slow growers due to the low energy yield. Thus, propionate get accumulated frequently in anaerobic digesters and it negatively affect digester performance. In this study, propionate degrading consortia from four different seeding sources were enriched in sequential bath mode in two phases; first adaption phase with 1 g/L of propionate concentration and later, high-strength phase with 3 g/L. From 16s rRNA gene based metagenomics analysis of the former phase, four syntrophic microbial groups, Syntrophaceae, Syntrophomonadaceae, Methanobacterium and Methanosaeta were found to be dominant with complete degradation of propionate. The substrate accelerated microbial shifts were observed at high-strength phase with significant decrease of Syntrophaceae up to 26.9 %. Using Response Surface Methodology, pH 6.8-6.9 and temperature 34.5-34.9 °C were found to be optimum growth conditions for the propionate degradation culture. Observed results could be useful to improve degradation efficiencies and obtained enriched culture can be used to recover propionate-accumulated digesters by bio-augmentation.

Syntrophic acetate oxidation replaces acetoclastic methanogenesis during thermophilic digestion of biowaste.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a globally important technology for effective waste and wastewater management. In AD, microorganisms interact in a complex food web for the production of biogas. Here, acetoclastic methanogens and syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria (SAOB) compete for acetate, a major intermediate in the mineralization of organic matter. Although evidence is emerging that syntrophic acetate oxidation is an important pathway for methane production, knowledge about the SAOB is still very limited.
A metabolic reconstruction of metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) from a thermophilic solid state biowaste digester covered the basic functions of the biogas microbial community. Firmicutes was the most abundant phylum in the metagenome (53%) harboring species that take place in various functions ranging from the hydrolysis of polymers to syntrophic acetate oxidation. The Wood-Ljungdahl pathway for syntrophic acetate oxidation and corresponding genes for energy conservation were identified in a Dethiobacteraceae MAG that is phylogenetically related to known SAOB. 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing and enrichment cultivation consistently identified the uncultured Dethiobacteraceae together with Syntrophaceticus, Tepidanaerobacter, and unclassified Clostridia as members of a potential acetate-oxidizing core community in nine full-scare digesters, whereas acetoclastic methanogens were barely detected.
Results presented here provide new insights into a remarkable anaerobic digestion ecosystem where acetate catabolism is mainly realized by Bacteria. Metagenomics and enrichment cultivation revealed a core community of diverse and novel uncultured acetate-oxidizing bacteria and point to a particular niche for them in dry fermentation of biowaste. Their genomic repertoire suggests metabolic plasticity besides the potential for syntrophic acetate oxidation. Video Abstract.

Diversity, enrichment, and genomic potential of anaerobic methane- and ammonium-oxidizing microorganisms from a brewery wastewater treatment plant.Anaerobic wastewater treatment offers several advantages; however, the effluent of anaerobic digesters still contains high levels of ammonium and dissolved methane that need to be removed before these effluents can be discharged to surface waters. The simultaneous anaerobic removal of methane and ammonium by denitrifying (N-damo) methanotrophs in combination with anaerobic ammonium-oxidizing (anammox) bacteria could be a potential solution to this challenge. After a molecular survey of a wastewater plant treating brewery effluent, indicating the presence of both N-damo and anammox bacteria, we started an anaerobic bioreactor with a continuous supply of methane, ammonium, and nitrite to enrich these anaerobic microorganisms. After 14 months of operation, a stable enrichment culture containing two types of 'Candidatus Methylomirabilis oxyfera' bacteria and two strains of 'Ca. Brocadia'-like anammox bacteria was achieved. In this community, anammox bacteria converted 80% of the nitrite with ammonium, while 'Ca. Methylomirabilis' contributed to 20% of the nitrite consumption. The analysis of metagenomic 16S rRNA reads and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) correlated well and showed that, after 14 months, 'Ca. Methylomirabilis' and anammox bacteria constituted approximately 30 and 20% of the total microbial community. In addition, a substantial part (10%) of the community consisted of Phycisphaera-related planctomycetes. Assembly and binning of the metagenomic sequences resulted in high-quality draft genome of two 'Ca. Methylomirabilis' species containing the marker genes pmoCAB, xoxF, and nirS and putative NO dismutase genes. The anammox draft genomes most closely related to 'Ca. Brocadia fulgida' included the marker genes hzsABC, hao, and hdh. Whole-reactor and batch anaerobic activity measurements with methane, ammonium, nitrite, and nitrate revealed an average anaerobic methane oxidation rate of 0.12 mmol h L and ammonium oxidation rate of 0.5 mmol h L. Together, this study describes the enrichment and draft genomes of anaerobic methanotrophs from a brewery wastewater treatment plant, where these organisms together with anammox bacteria can contribute significantly to the removal of methane and ammonium in a more sustainable way. KEY POINTS: • An enrichment culture containing both N-damo and anammox bacteria was obtained. • Simultaneous consumption of ammonia, nitrite, and methane under anoxic conditions. • In-depth metagenomic biodiversity analysis of inoculum and enrichment culture.

Powdered activated carbon facilitates methane productivity of anaerobic co-digestion via acidification alleviating: Microbial and metabolic insights.Low methanogenic efficiency caused by excess acidification is a challenge during anaerobic digestion. This study indicated that both granular activated carbon (GAC) and powdered activated carbon (PAC) promoted the start-up of methanogenesis and methane output in anaerobic co-digestion of food waste and fruit-vegetable waste. Moreover, PAC performed better than GAC. Specifically, the highest cumulative methane yield and shortest lag phase were observed in 5 g/L PAC and 10 g/L PAC group, 22.0% higher and 62.5% shorter than that without activated carbon supplementation, respectively. PAC facilitated the methane productivity by effectively accelerating volatile fatty acids (VFAs) consumption and thereby alleviating acidification. Syntrophic VFAs oxidizing bacteria (Gelria and Syntrophomonas) and direct interspecies electron transfer related microorganisms (Geobacter and Methanosarcina) were remarkably enriched by PAC. Furthermore, metagenomic analysis showed that both PAC and GAC might facilitate the electron transfer between microbes by acting as the electrical bridge and enhance both hydrogenotrophic and aceticlastic pathways.

Luminal microbiota related to Crohn's disease recurrence after surgery.Microbial factors are likely to be involved in the recurrence of Crohn's disease (CD) after bowel resection. We investigated the luminal microbiota before and longitudinally after surgery, in relation to disease recurrence, using 16S metagenomic techniques.
In the prospective Post-Operative Crohn's Endoscopic Recurrence (POCER) study, fecal samples were obtained before surgery and 6, 12, and 18 months after surgery from 130 CD patients. Endoscopy was undertaken to detect disease recurrence, defined as Rutgeerts score ≥i2, at 6 months in two-thirds of patients and all patients at 18 months after surgery. The V2 region of the 16S rRNA gene was sequenced using Illumina MiSeq. Cluster analysis was performed at family level, assessing microbiome community differences between patients with and without recurrence.
Six microbial cluster groups were identified. The cluster associated with maintenance of remission was enriched for the  family [adjusted OR 0.47 (0.27-0.82),  = .007]. The OTU diversity of  within this cluster was significantly greater than in all other clusters. The cluster enriched for  was associated with an increased risk of disease recurrence [adjusted OR 6.35 (1.24-32.44),  = .026]. OTU diversity of  within this cluster was significantly greater than in other clusters.
Luminal bacterial communities are associated with protection from, and the occurrence of, Crohn's disease recurrence after surgery. Recurrence may relate to a higher abundance of facultatively anaerobic pathobionts from the  family. The ecologic change of depleted , a genus of butyrate-producing bacteria, may permit expansion of  through luminal environmental perturbation.

Samia ricini
Composition and Diversity of Gut Bacteria Associated with the Eri Silk Moth, , (Lepidoptera: Saturniidae) as Revealed by Culture-Dependent and Metagenomics Analysis.The polyphagous eri silk moth, , is associated with various symbiotic gut bacteria believed to provide several benefits to the host. The larvae of  were subjected to isolation of gut bacteria using culture-dependent 16S rRNA generic characterization, metagenomics analysis and qualitative enzymatic assays. Sixty culturable aerobic gut bacterial isolates comprising Firmicutes (54%) and Proteobacteria (46%); and twelve culturable facultative anaerobic bacteria comprising Proteobacteria (92%) and Firmicutes (8%) were identified inhabiting the gut of . The results of metagenomics analysis revealed the presence of a diverse community of both culturable and un-culturable gut bacteria belonging to Proteobacteria (60%) and Firmicutes (20%) associated with seven orders. An analysis of the results of culturable isolation indicates that these bacterial isolates inhabited all the three compartments of the gut. Investigation on persistence of bacteria coupled with metagenomics analysis of the fifth instar suggested that bacteria persist in the gut across the different instar stages. In addition, enzymatic assays indicated that 48 and 75% of culturable aerobic, and 75% of anaerobic gut bacterial isolates had cellulolytic, lipolytic and nitrate reductase activities, thus suggesting that they may be involved in food digestion and nutritional provision to the host. These bacterial isolates may be good sources for profiling novel genes and biomolecules for biotechnological application.

Genome recovery and metatranscriptomic confirmation of functional acetate-oxidizing bacteria from enriched anaerobic biogas digesters.In many cases, it is difficult to isolate the key microbial organisms from their communities present in natural environments. Metagenomic methods can recover near-complete genomes of the dominant microbial organisms in communities, and metatrancriptomic data could further reveal important genes and pathways related to their functions. In this study, three draft genomes of Clostridium ultunense-like bacteria were recovered based on metagenomic analyses, which is an essential syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria (SAOB) member for maintaining high methane production in high-ammonium biogas digesters but difficult to isolate from its syntrophic partners. Firstly, syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria in a microbial community series were enriched from a biogas digester by adding sodium acetate in the medium. Global analyses of C. ultunense suggested that it would combine the pyruvate-serine-glycine pathway and part of the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway for syntrophic acetate oxidization. Moreover, metatranscriptomic analyses showed that all of the genes of the proposed syntrophic acetate-oxidizing pathway present in the genome were actively transcribed in the microbiota. The functional bacterial enrichment and refined assembly method identify rare microbial genome in complex natural microbiota, which help to recover the syntrophic acetate-oxidizing pathway in C. ultunense strains in this study.

Microbial community dynamics during anaerobic co-digestion of corn stover and swine manure at different solid content, carbon to nitrogen ratio and effluent volumetric percentages.The methane production and the microbial community dynamics of thermophilic anaerobic co-digestion (AD) of corn stover, swine manure and effluent were conducted at total solid (TS) content of 5%, 10% and 15%, the carbon to nitrogen ratio (C/N) of 20, 30 and 40 and the effluent volumetric percentage (EVP) of 20%, 40% and 60%. For batches with 5% TS, the highest methane yield of 238.5-283.1 mL g volatile solid (VS) and the specific methane productivity of 138.5-152.2 mL g initial VS were obtained at the C/N ratios of 20 and 30. For the mixtures with 10% and 15% TS, the highest methane yield was 341.9 mL g VS and 351.2 mL g VS, respectively, when the C/N ratio of 20% and 60% EVP conditions were maintained. Co-digestion of swine manure with corn stover caused an obvious shift in microbial population, in which the archaeal population changed from 0.3% to 2.8% and the bacterial community changed from 97.2% to 99.7%. The experimental batches with the highest relative abundance of the archaeal population (2.00% of total microbial population for 5% TS, 1.74% for 10% TS and 2.76% for 15% TS) had the highest rate of methanogenesis subsequently enhancing methane production (283.08 mL g VS for 5% TS, 341.91 mL g VS for 10% TS and 351.23 mL g VS for 15% TS). The results of microbiome analysis enabled understanding the key populations in biomethane generation.

A Rapid, Sensitive, Low-Cost Assay for Detecting Hydrogenotrophic Methanogens in Anaerobic Digesters Using Loop-Mediated Isothermal Amplification.Understanding how the presence, absence, and abundance of different microbial genera supply specific metabolic functions for anaerobic digestion (AD) and how these impact on gas production is critical for a long-term understanding and optimization of the AD process. The strictly anaerobic methanogenic archaea are essential for methane production within AD microbial communities. Methanogens are a phylogenetically diverse group that can be classified into three metabolically distinct lineages based on the substrates they use to produce methane. While process optimization based on physicochemical parameters is well established in AD, measurements that could allow manipulation of the underlying microbial community are seldom used as they tend to be non-specific, expensive, or time-consuming, or a combination of all three. Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) assays combine a simple, rapid, low-cost detection technique with high sensitivity and specificity. Here, we describe the optimization of LAMP assays for the detection of four different genera of hydrogenotrophic methanogens:  and  spp. By targeting archaeal elongation factor 2 (aEF2), these LAMP assays provide a rapid, low-cost, presence/absence indication of hydrogenotrophic methanogens that could be used as a real-time measure of process conditions. The assays were shown to be sensitive to 1 pg of DNA from most tested methanogen species, providing a route to a quantitative measure through simple serial dilution of samples. The LAMP assays described here offer a simple, fast, and affordable method for the specific detection of four different genera of hydrogenotrophic methanogens. Our results indicate that this approach could be developed into a quantitative measure that could provide rapid, low-cost insight into the functioning and optimization of AD and related systems.

A Modular Metagenomics Pipeline Allowing for the Inclusion of Prior Knowledge Using the Example of Anaerobic Digestion.Metagenomics analysis revealing the composition and functional repertoire of complex microbial communities typically relies on large amounts of sequence data. Numerous analysis strategies and computational tools are available for their analysis. Fully integrated automated analysis pipelines such as MG-RAST or MEGAN6 are user-friendly but not designed for integrating specific knowledge on the biological system under study. In order to facilitate the consideration of such knowledge, we introduce a modular, adaptable analysis pipeline combining existing tools. We applied the novel pipeline to simulated mock data sets focusing on anaerobic digestion microbiomes and compare results to those obtained with established automated analysis pipelines. We find that the analysis strategy and choice of tools and parameters have a strong effect on the inferred taxonomic community composition, but not on the inferred functional profile. By including prior knowledge, computational costs can be decreased while improving result accuracy. While automated off-the-shelf analysis pipelines are easy to apply and require no knowledge on the microbial system under study, custom-made pipelines require more preparation time and bioinformatics expertise. This extra effort is minimized by our modular, flexible, custom-made pipeline, which can be adapted to different scenarios and can take available knowledge on the microbial system under study into account.

Impact of laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass and sleeve gastrectomy on gut microbiota: a metagenomic comparative analysis.Bariatric surgery is an effective therapeutic procedure for morbidly obese patients. The 2 most common interventions are sleeve gastrectomy (SG) and laparoscopic Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (LRYGB).
The aim of this study was to compare microbiome long-term microbiome after SG and LRYGB surgery in obese patients.
University Hospital, France; University Hospital, United States; and University Hospital, Switzerland.
Eighty-nine and 108 patients who underwent SG and LRYGB, respectively, were recruited. Stools were collected before and 6 months after surgery. Microbial DNA was analyzed with shotgun metagenomic sequencing (SOLiD 5500 xl Wildfire). MSPminer, a novel innovative tool to characterize new in silico biological entities, was used to identify 715 Metagenomic Species Pan-genome. One hundred forty-eight functional modules were analyzed using GOmixer and KEGG database.
Both interventions resulted in a similar increase of Shannon's diversity index and gene richness of gut microbiota, in parallel with weight loss, but the changes of microbial composition were different. LRYGB led to higher relative abundance of aero-tolerant bacteria, such as Escherichia coli and buccal species, such as Streptococcus and Veillonella spp. In contrast, anaerobes, such as Clostridium, were more abundant after SG, suggesting better conservation of anaerobic conditions in the gut. Enrichment of Akkermansia muciniphila was also observed after both surgeries. Function-level changes included higher potential for bacterial use of supplements, such as vitamin B12, B1, and iron upon LRYGB.
Microbiota changes after bariatric surgery depend on the nature of the intervention. LRYGB induces greater taxonomic and functional changes in gut microbiota than SG. Possible long-term health consequences of these alterations remain to be established.

Chelonia mydas
Identification of Gastrointestinal Microbiota in Hawaiian Green Turtles ().Green turtles () have a hindgut fermentation digestive tract, which uses cellulolytic microbes to break down plant matter in the cecum and proximal colon. Previous studies on bacterial communities of green turtles have not identified  hindgut microbiota, and never before in Hawaiian green turtles, which comprise an isolated metapopulation. Fresh samples using sterile swabs were taken from five locations along the gastrointestinal tracts of eight green turtles that had required euthanization. Bacteria were cultured, aerobically and anaerobically, on nutrient agar and four differential and selective media. Samples at three sections along the gastrointestinal tracts of two green turtles were analyzed using 16S metagenomics on an Ion Torrent Personal Genome Machine. More than half of the 4 532 104 sequences belonged to the phylum Firmicutes, followed by Bacteroidetes and Proteobacteria, which are characteristic of herbivore gut microbiota. Some microbiota variation existed between turtles and among gastrointestinal sections. The 16S sequence analysis provided a better representation of the total gastrointestinal bacterial community, much of which cannot be cultured using traditional microbial techniques. These metagenomic analyses serve as a foundation for a better understanding of the microbiome of green turtles in the Hawaiian Islands and elsewhere.

Different micro-aeration rates facilitate production of different end-products from source-diverted blackwater.The effects of micro-aeration on the performance of anaerobic sequencing batch reactors (ASBR) for blackwater treatment were investigated in this study. Different micro-aeration rates, 0, 5, 10, 50, and 150 mg O/L-reactor/cycle, and their effect on the hydrolysis, acidogenesis, and methanogenesis of blackwater were evaluated and compared at ambient temperature. Source-diverted blackwater (toilet water) contains high organic contents which can be recovered as biogas. Previous studies have found that anaerobic digestion of blackwater without micro-aeration can only recover upwards of less than 40% of chemical oxygen demand (COD) to methane at room temperature due to the low hydrolysis rate of biomass content in blackwater. This study achieved increases in blackwater hydrolysis (from 34.7% to 48.7%) and methane production (from 39.6% to 50.7%) with controlled micro-aeration (5 mg O/L-reactor/cycle). The microbial analysis results showed that hydrolytic/fermentative bacteria and acetoclastic methanogens (e.g. Methanosaeta) were in higher abundances in low-dose micro-aeration reactors (5 and 10 mg O/L-reactor/cycle), which facilitated syntrophic interactions between microorganisms. The relative abundance of oxygen-tolerant methanogen such as Methanosarcina greatly increased (from 1.5% to 11.4%) after oxygen injection. High oxygen dosages (50 and 150 mg O/L-reactor/cycle) led to reduced methane production and higher accumulation of volatile fatty acids, largely due to the oxygen inhibition on methanogens and degradation of organic matters by aerobic growth and respiration, as indicated by the predicted metagenome functions. By combining reactor performance results and microbial community analyses, this study demonstrated that low-dose micro-aeration improves blackwater biomethane recovery by enhancing hydrolysis efficiency and promoting the development of a functional microbial population, while medium to high-dose micro-aeration reduced the activities of certain anaerobes. It was also observed that medium-dose micro-aeration maximizes VFA accumulation, which may be used in two-stage anaerobic digesters.

Abundance and diversity of microbial arsenic biotransformation genes in the sludge of full-scale anaerobic digesters from a municipal wastewater treatment plant.Arsenic (As) is a potential contaminant in sewage sludge that may affect waste treatment and limit the use of these waste materials as soil amendments. Anaerobic digestion (AD) is an important and effective process for the treatment of sewage sludge and the chemical speciation of As is particularly important in sludge AD. However, the biotransformation genes of As in sludge during AD has not been fully explored. In this study, the influent and effluent sludge of anaerobic digester in a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) was collected to investigate the species transformations of As, the abundance and diversity of As biotransformation genes was explored by real-time PCR (qPCR) and metagenomic sequencing, separately. The results showed that arsenite [As(III)] and arsenate [As(V)] were predominant in the influent sludge, whereas the relative abundance of monomethylarsenic acid (MMA) increased by 25.7% after digestion. As biotransformation genes were highly abundant, and the As(III) S-adenosylmethionine methyltransferase (arsM) gene was the predominant which significantly increased after AD by qPCR analysis. Metagenomic analysis indicated that the diversity of the arsM-like sequences also increased significantly after AD. Most of the arsM-like sequences in all the influent and effluent sludge samples were related to Bacteroidetes and Alphaproteobacteria. Furthermore, co-occurrence network analysis indicated a strong correlation between the microbial communities and As. This study provides a direct and reliable reference on As biotransformation genes and microbial community in the AD of sludge.

Porphyromonas gingivalis
A Uniquely Altered Oral Microbiome Composition Was Observed in Pregnant Rats With  Induced Periodontal Disease.is an anaerobic bacterium commonly found in the oral cavity and associated with the development of periodontal disease.  has also been linked to several systemic vascular and inflammatory diseases including poor pregnancy outcomes. Little is known about the changes in the oral flora during pregnancy in connection to  infection. This pilot study aims to explore changes in the oral microbiome due to  inoculation and pregnancy in an  rat model of periodontal disease. A metagenomic sequencing analysis targeting seven of the 16S rRNA gene variable regions was performed for oral samples collected at the following time points: baseline control (week 0),  inoculated (week 11),  inoculated and pregnant rat at necropsy (week 16). A second set of animals were also sampled to generate a sham-inoculated (week 11) control group. We found that the rat oral microbiome profiles were more similar to that of the human oral cavity compared to previous reports targeting one or two 16S variable regions. Overall, there appears to be a relatively stable core microbiome in the oral cavity. As expected,  induced periodontal disease resulted in oral microbiome dysbiosis. During pregnancy, some aspects of the oral microbiome shifted toward a more baseline-like profile. However, population analyses in terms of dissimilarity measures and especially metagenomic based predictions of select characteristics such as cell morphology, oxygen requirement, and major metabolite synthesis showed that pregnancy did not restore the composition of the oral microbiome. Rather, a uniquely altered oral microbiome composition was observed in pregnant rats with pre-established periodontal disease.

Humification in extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) dominates methane release and EPS reconstruction during the sludge stabilization of high-solid anaerobic digestion.High-solid anaerobic digestion (HAD) can directly treat dewatered sewage sludge (total solid content ≥15%) with superior volume efficiency. Sludge stabilization during HAD is expected to achieve by throughout organic degradation and conversion towards methane-rich biogas release and humic formation. Sewage sludge is the combination of microbial zoogleas and theirs adsorption of organic and inorganic matter, in which the extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) account 60-80% of total sludge organic matter, inevitably participating most extracellular metabolic pathways. The interactions between EPS transformation and genetically annotated metabolic pathways were found in this research. In brief, noticing the highly cross-linked structures in EPS with major active components of humic substances (HS) and protein (PN), as PN hydrolysis and decomposition in EPS were enhanced in the high-solid anaerobic condition, the exposure of aromatic groups and sites in HS were considerable. HS release was the main factor shifting the electron exchange capacity and activity, which aided in energy metabolism of sludge microorganisms involved in redox reactions, especially the methanogenesis, thus in turn facilitating the PN degradation; Then, the screened humic groups and active protein derives might act as the beneficial precursors to regenerate neo-humic structures, whose significant bridging effect and signal role on stimulating amino acid biosynthesis, member transport and metallic complexation could further contribute to proteolytic condensation and EPS reconstruction. Hence, the in-depth sludge stabilization mechanism during HAD process was established for developing enlightening strategies.

The Changes in the Frog Gut Microbiome and Its Putative Oxygen-Related Phenotypes Accompanying the Development of Gastrointestinal Complexity and Dietary Shift.There are many examples of symbiotic and reciprocal relationships in ecological systems; animal gut microbiome-host interactions are one such kind of bidirectional and complex relationship. Here, we utilized several approaches (16S rRNA gene sequencing, metagenomics, and transcriptomics) to explore potential gut microbiome-host interactions accompanying the development of gastrointestinal complexity and a dietary shift from metamorphosis to maturity in ornamented pygmy frogs (). We identified the possible coevolution between a particular gut microbial group (increased putative fat-digesting Erysipelotrichaceae and chitin-digesting  and Ruminococcaceae) and the host dietary shift [from herbivore to insectivore (high proportion of dietary chitin and fat)] during metamorphosis. We also found that the remodeling and complexity of the gastrointestinal system during metamorphosis might have a profound effect on the gut microbial community (decreasing facultative anaerobic Proteobacteria and increasing anaerobic Firmicutes) and its putative oxygen-related phenotypes. Moreover, a high proportion of chitin-digesting bacteria and increased carbohydrate metabolism by gut microbiomes at the climax of metamorphosis would help the frog's nutrition and energy needs during metamorphosis and development. Considering the increased expression of particular host genes (e.g., chitinase) in juvenile frogs, we speculate that host plays an important role in amphibian metamorphosis, and their symbiotic gut microbiome may help in this process by providing the nutrition and energy needs. We provide this basic information for the amphibian conservation and managements.

Ecogenomics reveals community interactions in a long-term methanogenic bioreactor and a rapid switch to sulfate-reducing conditions.The anaerobic digestion of wastes is globally important in the production of methane (CH4) as a biofuel. When sulfate is present, sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) are stimulated, competing with methanogens for common substrates, which decreases CH4 production and results in the formation of corrosive, odorous hydrogen sulfide gas (H2S). Here, we show that a population of SRB within a methanogenic bioreactor fed only butyrate for years immediately (within hours) responded to sulfate availability and shifted the microbial community dynamics within the bioreactor. By mapping shotgun metatranscriptomes to metagenome-assembled genomes, we shed light on the transcriptomic responses of key community members in response to increased sulfate provision. We link these short-term transcriptional responses to long-term niche partitioning using comparative metagenomic analyses. Our results suggest that sulfate provision supports a syntrophic butyrate oxidation community that disfavors poly-β-hydroxyalkanoate storage and that hydrogenotrophic SRB populations effectively exclude obligately hydrogenotrophic, but not aceticlastic, methanogens when sulfate is readily available. These findings elucidate key ecological dynamics between SRB, methanogens and syntrophic butyrate-oxidizing bacteria, which can be applied to a variety of engineered and natural systems.

New insights from the biogas microbiome by comprehensive genome-resolved metagenomics of nearly 1600 species originating from multiple anaerobic digesters.Microorganisms in biogas reactors are essential for degradation of organic matter and methane production. However, a comprehensive genome-centric comparison, including relevant metadata for each sample, is still needed to identify the globally distributed biogas community members and serve as a reliable repository.
Here, 134 publicly available metagenomes derived from different biogas reactors were used to recover 1635 metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) representing different biogas bacterial and archaeal species. All genomes were estimated to be > 50% complete and nearly half ≥ 90% complete with ≤ 5% contamination. In most samples, specialized microbial communities were established, while only a few taxa were widespread among the different reactor systems. Metabolic reconstruction of the MAGs enabled the prediction of functional traits related to biomass degradation and methane production from waste biomass. An extensive evaluation of the replication index provided an estimation of the growth dynamics for microbes involved in different steps of the food chain.
The outcome of this study highlights a high flexibility of the biogas microbiome, allowing it to modify its composition and to adapt to the environmental conditions, including temperatures and a wide range of substrates. Our findings enhance our mechanistic understanding of the AD microbiome and substantially extend the existing repository of genomes. The established database represents a relevant resource for future studies related to this engineered ecosystem.

Metabolic dependencies govern microbial syntrophies during methanogenesis in an anaerobic digestion ecosystem.Methanogenesis, a biological process mediated by complex microbial communities, has attracted great attention due to its contribution to global warming and potential in biotechnological applications. The current study unveiled the core microbial methanogenic metabolisms in anaerobic vessel ecosystems by applying combined genome-centric metagenomics and metatranscriptomics. Here, we demonstrate that an enriched natural system, fueled only with acetate, could support a bacteria-dominated microbiota employing a multi-trophic methanogenic process. Moreover, significant changes, in terms of microbial structure and function, were recorded after the system was supplemented with additional H. Methanosarcina thermophila, the predominant methanogen prior to H addition, simultaneously performed acetoclastic, hydrogenotrophic, and methylotrophic methanogenesis. The methanogenic pattern changed after the addition of H, which immediately stimulated Methanomicrobia-activity and was followed by a slow enrichment of Methanobacteria members. Interestingly, the essential genes involved in the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway were not expressed in bacterial members. The high expression of a glycine cleavage system indicated the activation of alternative metabolic pathways for acetate metabolism, which were reconstructed in the most abundant bacterial genomes. Moreover, as evidenced by predicted auxotrophies, we propose that specific microbes of the community were forming symbiotic relationships, thus reducing the biosynthetic burden of individual members. These results provide new information that will facilitate future microbial ecology studies of interspecies competition and symbiosis in methanogenic niches. Video abstract.

A Methanogenic Consortium Was Active and Exhibited Long-Term Survival in an Extremely Acidified Thermophilic Bioreactor.Acid crisis characterized by acid accumulation and/or low pH is a common reason for the failure of anaerobic digestion (AD), which is usually applied for wastewater and waste treatment. Acid-tolerant methanogens are rarely reported to be active in the artificial anaerobic digester. In this study, we observed that the thermophilic methanogenesis by a consortium in the form of flocs and not granules could still be recovered during long-term operation at acetate concentration of up to 104 mM and pH 5.5 by adjusting the pH gradually or directly to pH 5.5 or 5.0. The acclimation process involving the gradual decrease in pH could enhance the resistance of the consortium against extreme acidification. The stable isotopic signature analysis of biogas revealed that , which produced methane through acetoclastic methanogenesis (AM) pathway, was the predominant methane producer when the pH was decreased gradually to 5.0. Meanwhile, the abundance of  increased with a decrease in pH. Contrastingly, when directly subjected to an environment of pH 5.5 and 104 mM acetate (15.84-mM free acetic acid) after a 42-day lag phase,  was the predominant methanogen.  initiated methane production through the hydrogenotrophic pathway and formed syntrophic relationship/consortium with the potential acetate-oxidizing bacteria,  and . Comparative metagenomic and metatranscriptomic analysis on this self-adapted and acid-tolerant consortium revealed that the genes, such as GroEL, DnaK, CheY, and flagellum-related genes (FlaA, FlgE, and FliC) from , , and  were highly overexpressed in response to system acidification. Microbial self-adaptation patterns (community structure adjustment, methanogenesis pathway shift, and transcriptional regulation) of thermophilic methanogenic consortium to gradual and sudden acidification were evaluated by integrated stable isotopic signature and comparative meta-omic approaches. The study elucidated the acid-resistant mechanism of thermophilic methanogenic consortium and deepened our knowledge of the function, interaction, and microbial characteristics of , , and  under extreme acidic environment.

The canine gastrointestinal microbiota: early studies and research frontiers.The canine gut microbiota is a complex microbial population that is potentially related to metabolism, immunologic activity and gastrointestinal (GI) diseases. Early studies revealed that the canine gut microbiota was dynamic, and bacterial populations in the adjacent gut segments were similar, with anaerobes predominating. Metagenomics analysis revealed that nutrient contents in the diet modulated bacterial populations and metabolites in the canine gut. Further research revealed significant correlations between dietary factors and canine gut core microbiomes. Canine GI diseases are closely correlated with gut microbiota dysbiosis and metabolic disorders. Probiotic-related therapies can effectively treat canine GI diseases. Recent studies have revealed that the canine gut microbiota is similar to the human gut microbiota, and dietary factors affect both. Studying canine intestinal microorganisms enables clarifying changes in the canine intestinal bacteria under different conditions, simulating human diseases in dog models, and conducting in-depth studies of the interactions between intestinal bacteria and disease.

Contributions to human breast milk microbiome and enteromammary transfer of Bifidobacterium breve.Increasing evidence supports the importance of the breast milk microbiome in seeding the infant gut. However, the origin of bacteria in milk and the process of milk microbe-mediated seeding of infant intestine need further elucidation. Presumed sources of bacteria in milk include locations of mother-infant and mother-environment interactions. We investigate the role of mother-infant interaction on breast milk microbes. Shotgun metagenomics and 16S rRNA gene sequencing identified milk microbes of mother-infant pairs in breastfed infants and in infants that have never latched. Although breast milk has low overall biomass, milk microbes play an important role in seeding the infant gut. Breast milk bacteria were largely comprised of Staphylococcus, Streptococcus, Acinetobacter, and Enterobacter primarily derived from maternal areolar skin and infant oral sites in breastfeeding pairs. This suggests that the process of breastfeeding is a potentially important mechanism for propagation of breast milk microbes through retrograde flux via infant oral and areolar skin contact. In one infant delivered via Caesarian section, a distinct strain of Bifidobacteria breve was identified in maternal rectum, breast milk and the infant's stool potentially suggesting direct transmission. This may support the existence of microbial translocation of this anaerobic bacteria via the enteromammary pathway in humans, where maternal bacteria translocate across the maternal gut and are transferred to the mammary glands. Modulating sources of human milk microbiome seeding potentially imply opportunities to ultimately influence the development of the infant microbiome and health.

Different Interspecies Electron Transfer Patterns during Mesophilic and Thermophilic Syntrophic Propionate Degradation in Chemostats.Propionate is one of the major intermediates in anaerobic digestion of organic waste to CO and CH. In methanogenic environments, propionate is degraded through a mutualistic interaction between symbiotic propionate oxidizers and methanogens. Although temperature heavily influences the microbial ecology and performance of methanogenic processes, its effect on syntrophic interaction during propionate degradation remains poorly understood. In this study, metagenomics and metatranscriptomics were employed to compare mesophilic and thermophilic propionate degradation communities. Mesophilic propionate degradation involved multiple syntrophic organisms (Syntrophobacter, Smithella, and Syntrophomonas), pathways, interactions, and preference toward formate-based electron transfer to methanogenic partners (i.e., Methanoculleus). In thermophilic propionate degradation, one syntrophic organism predominated (Pelotomaculum), interspecies H transfer played a major role, and phylogenetically and metabolically diverse H-oxidizing methanogens were present (i.e., Methanoculleus, Methanothermobacter, and Methanomassiliicoccus). This study showed that microbial interactions, metabolic pathways, and niche diversity are distinct between mesophilic and thermophilic microbial communities responsible for syntrophic propionate degradation.

Antibiotic resistome and microbial community structure during anaerobic co-digestion of food waste, paper and cardboard.Solid organic waste is a significant source of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and effective treatment strategies are urgently required to limit the spread of antimicrobial resistance. Here, we studied ARG diversity and abundance as well as the relationship between antibiotic resistome and microbial community structure within a lab-scale solid-state anaerobic digester treating a mixture of food waste, paper and cardboard. A total of 10 samples from digester feed and digestion products were collected for microbial community analysis including small subunit rRNA gene sequencing, total community metagenome sequencing and high-throughput quantitative PCR. We observed a significant shift in microbial community composition and a reduction in ARG diversity and abundance after 6 weeks of digestion. ARGs were identified in all samples with multidrug resistance being the most abundant ARG type. Thirty-two per cent of ARGs detected in digester feed were located on plasmids indicating potential for horizontal gene transfer. Using metagenomic assembly and binning, we detected potential bacterial hosts of ARGs in digester feed, which included Erwinia, Bifidobacteriaceae, Lactococcus lactis and Lactobacillus. Our results indicate that the process of sequential solid-state anaerobic digestion of food waste, paper and cardboard tested herein provides a significant reduction in the relative abundance of ARGs per 16S rRNA gene.

Washed microbiota transplantation vs. manual fecal microbiota transplantation: clinical findings, animal studies and in vitro screening.Fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) by manual preparation has been applied to treat diseases for thousands of years. However, this method still endures safety risks and challenges the psychological endurance and acceptance of doctors, patients and donors. Population evidence showed the washed microbiota preparation with microfiltration based on an automatic purification system followed by repeated centrifugation plus suspension for three times significantly reduced FMT-related adverse events. This washing preparation makes delivering a precise dose of the enriched microbiota feasible, instead of using the weight of stool. Intraperitoneal injection in mice with the fecal microbiota supernatant obtained after repeated centrifugation plus suspension for three times induced less toxic reaction than that by the first centrifugation following the microfiltration. The toxic reactions that include death, the change in the level of peripheral white blood cells, and the proliferation of germinal center in secondary lymphoid follicles in spleen were noted. The metagenomic next-generation sequencing (NGS) indicated the increasing types and amount of viruses could be washed out during the washing process. Metabolomics analysis indicated metabolites with pro-inflammatory effects in the fecal microbiota supernatant such as leukotriene B4, corticosterone, and prostaglandin G2 could be removed by repeated washing. Near-infrared absorption spectroscopy could be served as a rapid detection method to control the quality of the washing-process. In conclusion, this study for the first time provides evidence linking clinical findings and animal experiments to support that washed microbiota transplantation (WMT) is safer, more precise and more quality-controllable than the crude FMT by manual.

Novel syntrophic bacteria in full-scale anaerobic digesters revealed by genome-centric metatranscriptomics.Short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) degradation is an important process in methanogenic ecosystems, and is usually catalyzed by SCFA-oxidizing bacteria in syntrophy with methanogens. Current knowledge of this functional guild is mainly based on isolates or enrichment cultures, but these may not reflect the true diversity and in situ activities of the syntrophs predominating in full-scale systems. Here we obtained 182 medium to high quality metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) from the microbiome of two full-scale anaerobic digesters. The transcriptomic response of individual MAG was studied after stimulation with low concentrations of acetate, propionate, or butyrate, separately. The most pronounced response to butyrate was observed for two MAGs of the recently described genus Candidatus Phosphitivorax (phylum Desulfobacterota), expressing a butyrate beta-oxidation pathway. For propionate, the largest response was observed for an MAG of a novel genus in the family Pelotomaculaceae, transcribing a methylmalonyl-CoA pathway. All three species were common in anaerobic digesters at Danish wastewater treatment plants as shown by amplicon analysis, and this is the first time their syntrophic features involved in SCFA oxidation were revealed with transcriptomic evidence. Further, they also possessed unique genomic features undescribed in well-characterized syntrophs, including the metabolic pathways for phosphite oxidation, nitrite and sulfate reduction.

Effects of supplemental plant oils on rumen bacterial community profile and digesta fatty acid composition in a continuous culture system (RUSITEC).Lipid supplementation of ruminant diets may trigger changes in the ruminal microbiota and in anaerobic digestion. Changes in the bacterial community composition and in the fatty acid hydrogenation caused by the addition of different supplemental plant oils to a high concentrate diet were investigated in vitro using RUSITEC (rumen simulation technique) fermenters. The control (CTR) diet was a high-concentrate total mixed ration for dairy sheep, with no supplementary oil. The other experimental diets were supplemented with olive (OLV), sunflower (SFL) or linseed (LNS) oils at 6% (dry matter basis). Four RUSITEC fermenters were used for each experimental diet, all inoculated with rumen digesta of sheep. Extent of dry matter and fat degradation, composition of the bacterial community and long-chain fatty acids in digesta were determined. The addition of plant oils increased (P < 0.001) apparent degradation of fat in the fermenters, whereas fermentation kinetics (gas production and average fermentation rate) were lower (P < 0.05) with the LNS than with the CTR diet. Hydrogenation of C18 unsaturated fatty acids (P < 0.05), in particular that of oleic acid (P < 0.001), and stearic acid proportion (P < 0.001) were reduced, and oleic acid proportion was increased (P < 0.001) with all oil supplements. Addition of OLV decreased linoleic and LNS increased α-linolenic (P < 0.001), whereas conjugated linoleic was increased with SFL oil (P = 0.025) and vaccenic increased with both SFL and LNS oils (P = 0.008). Addition of 6% OLV and LNS reduced (P < 0.05) microbial community diversity and quantity of total bacteria relative to the control. Some specific microbial groups were affected (P < 0.001) by oil addition, with less relative abundance of Clostridiales and Actinobacteria and increased Bacteroidales, Aeromonadales and Lactobacillales species. In conclusion, the supplementation of high-concentrate ruminant diets with plant oils, in particular from sunflower or linseed, causes shifts in the rumen microbiota and fatty acid hydrogenation in the rumen increasing the formation of vaccenic and conjugated linoleic acids.

Exploring the antibiotic resistome in activated sludge and anaerobic digestion sludge in an urban wastewater treatment plant via metagenomic analysis.Antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) are emerging contaminants that pose a potential threat to human health worldwide. Urban wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) are a main source of both antibiotic-resistant bacteria and ARGs released into the environment. Nevertheless, the propagation of ARGs and their underlying mechanisms and the dynamics of mobile genetic elements (MGEs) in WWTPs have rarely been investigated in South Korea. In this study, shotgun metagenomic analysis was used to identify comprehensive ARGs and their mechanisms, bacterial communities, and MGEs from 4 configurations with 2 activated sludge (AS) and 2 anaerobic digestion sludge (ADS) samples. A total of 181 ARG subtypes belonging to 22 ARG types were broadly detected, and the ARG abundances in the AS samples were 1.3-2.0 orders of magnitude higher than in the ADS samples. Multidrug and bacitracin resistance genes were the predominant ARG types in AS samples, followed by ARGs against sulfonamide, tetracycline, and β-lactam. However, the composition of ARG types in ADS samples was significantly changed. The abundance of multidrug and β-lactam resistance genes was drastically reduced in the ADS samples. The resistance genes of MLS were the predominant, followed by ARGs against sulfonamide and tetracycline in the ADS samples. In addition, plasmids were the dominant MGEs in the AS samples, while integrons (intI1) were the dominant MGEs in the ADS samples. These results provide valuable information regarding the prevalence of ARG types and MGEs and the difference patterns between the AS and ADS systems.

The effect of the microalgae-bacteria microbiome on wastewater treatment and biomass production.The use of microalgae for wastewater treatment has been proposed as a cost-effective method to produce biofuels while remediating waste streams. This study examined the microalgae biomass production rate, wastewater treatment efficiency, and prokaryotic organism microbiome associated with microalgae Chlorella sorokiniana cultivated on anaerobic digestate effluent. Final microalgae biomass concentrations from nine photobioreactors were highly variable and had values that ranged between 0.14 g/L and 0.90 g/L. Nutrient removal efficiencies for TN (total nitrogen), N-NH (ammonium nitrogen), and COD (chemical oxygen demand) ranged from 34% to 67%, 65% to 97%, and-60% to 14%, respectively. Analysis of individual OTUs (operational taxonomic units) from the microbial community revealed that microalgae biomass concentrations were significantly correlated with the relative abundance of OTUs in the genus Pusillimonas. Predictive metagenomic analyses identified additional correlations associated with biomass production and nutrient removal. These results suggest that the microbial community present during microalgae cultivation on wastewater can impact the performance of the system for biomass production and wastewater treatment.

Enhanced solubilization and biochemical methane potential of waste activated sludge by combined free nitrous acid and potassium ferrate pretreatment.The increasing production of waste activated sludge (WAS) from wastewater treatment plants presents an inherent environmental burden. In this study, Free nitrous acid combined with potassium ferrate (FNA + PF) pretreatment was used to enhance solubilization and biochemical methane potential of WAS. Results indicated that the maximum removal rates of total suspended solid by PF, FNA, and PF + FNA pretreatment were 21.84%, 38.09%, and 56.17%, respectively. The biochemical methane potential of WAS without pretreatment reached 61.22 L CH/kg VSS added while this value increased to 147.07 L CH/kg VSS added after FNA + PF pretreatment (0.06 g/g TSS NaNO and 0.25 g/g TSS KFeO). Shotgun metagenomic analysis revealed that FNA + PF pretreatment could increase the diversity and stability of microbial communities by shifting methanogenic pathways from strictly acetoclastic to acetoclastic/hydrogenotrophic, thereby enhancing methane production. This study suggested that FNA + PF pretreatment is a promising technology to reduce WAS and enhance methane production by pretreated WAS during anaerobic digestion.

Changes in the gut microbiome and enzymatic profile of Tenebrio molitor larvae biodegrading cellulose, polyethylene and polystyrene waste.Recent studies have demonstrated the ability of mealworm (Tenebrio molitor) for plastic degradation. This study is focused on changes in microbiome structure depending on diets. Microbial community obtained from oat and cellulose diet formed similar group, two kinds of polyethylene formed another group, while polystyrene diet showed the highest dissimilarity. The highest relative abundance of bacteria colonizing gut was in PE-oxodegradable feeding, nevertheless all applied diets were higher in comparison to oat. Dominant phyla consisted of Proteobacteria, Bacteroides, Firmicutes and Actinobacteria, however after PS feeding frequency in Planctomycetes and Nitrospirae increased. The unique bacteria characteristic for cellulose diet belonged to Selenomonas, while Pantoea were characteristic for both polyethylene diets, Lactococcus and Elizabethkingia were unique for each plastic diet, and potential diazotropic bacteria were characteristic for polystyrene diet (Agrobacterium, Nitrosomonas, Nitrospira). Enzymatic similarity between oatmeal and cellulose diets, was shown. All three plastics diet resulted in different activity in both, digestive tract and bacteria. The enzymes with the highest activity were included phosphatases, esterases, leucine arylamidase, β-galactosidase, β-glucuronidase, α-glucosidase, β-glucosidase, chitinase, α-mannosidase and α-fucosidase. The activity of digestive tract was stronger than cultured gut bacteria. In addition to known polyethylene degradation methods, larvae may degrade polyethylene with esterase, cellulose and oatmeal waste activity is related with the activity of sugar-degrading enzymes, degradation of polystyrene with anaerobic processes and diazotrophs.

Shedding light on biogas: Phototrophic biofilms in anaerobic digesters hold potential for improved biogas production.Conventional anaerobic digesters intended for the production of biogas usually operate in complete darkness. Therefore, little is known about the effect of light on their microbial communities. In the present work, 16S rRNA gene amplicon Nanopore sequencing and shotgun metagenomic sequencing were used to study the taxonomic and functional structure of the microbial community forming a biofilm on the inner wall of a laboratory-scale transparent anaerobic biodigester illuminated with natural sunlight. The biofilm was composed of microorganisms involved in the four metabolic processes needed for biogas production, and it was surprisingly rich in Rhodopseudomonas faecalis, a versatile bacterium able to carry out photoautotrophic metabolism when grown under anaerobic conditions. The results suggested that this bacterium, which is able to fix carbon dioxide, could be considered for use in transparent biogas fermenters in order to contribute to the production of optimized biogas with a higher CH:CO ratio than the biogas produced in regular, opaque digesters. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first study characterising the phototrophic biofilm associated with illuminated bioreactors.

Enhanced biogas production from municipal solid waste via co-digestion with sewage sludge and metabolic pathway analysis.The present study intends to evaluate the potential of co-digestion for utilizing Organic fraction of Municipal Solid Waste (OFMSW) and sewage sludge (SS) for enhanced biogas production. Metagenomic analysis was performed to identify the dominant bacteria, archaea and fungi, changes in their communities with time and their functional roles during the course of anaerobic digestion (AD). The cumulative biogas yield of 586.2 mL biogas/gVS with the highest methane concentration of 69.5% was observed under an optimum ratio of OFMSW:SS (40:60 w/w). Bacteria and fungi were found to be majorly involved in hydrolysis and initial stages of AD. Probably, the most common archaea Methanosarsina sp. primarily followed the acetoclastic pathway. The hydrogenotrophic pathway was less followed as indicated by the reduction in abundance of syntrophic acetate oxidizers. An adequate understanding of microbial communities is important to manipulate and inoculate the specific microbial consortia to maximize CH production through AD.

Dataset of anaerobic acidogenic digestion for hydrogen production using xylose as substrate: Biogas production and metagenomic data.This paper presents the raw data of biogas production and composition (relative pressures and concentrations of each of the biogas constituents) for batch experiments to evaluate the anaerobic digestion of xylose. Also, metagenomic sequencing data and analysis were reported. All data is available at Mendeley Data. 16S DNA sequencing data and metadata is available at MG-RAST (metagenomics.anl.gov/linkin.cgi?project = 9961). For further discussion, please refer to the scientific article entitled "Effect of acidic and thermal pretreatments on a microbial inoculum for hydrogen and volatile fatty acids production through xylose anaerobic acidogenic metabolism" (Mockaitis et al., 2020).

Ammonia stress reduces antibiotic efflux but enriches horizontal gene transfer of antibiotic resistance genes in anaerobic digestion.The dynamics of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) response to ammonia stress were evaluated using metagenomics and quantitative PCR (qPCR) in anaerobic digestion (AD). Ammonia stress reduced ARGs associated with antibiotic efflux, especially the major facilitator superfamily (MFS) of tet(L), due to free ammonia (FA) that changed the proton gradient of efflux system. Nonetheless, ARGs of antibiotic target alteration, especially ermB, were enriched under ammonia stress, which could be attributed to the initiation of the internal enhancer of the transferability of the broad host range plasmid, pAMbeta1. Statistical analysis elucidated the significant changes of ARGs are directly attributed to the mobile genetic elements (MGEs), but the little affected ARGs are mainly determined by the functional microbes reflected by nitrogen cycling genes (NCyc). This study deciphered the profiles of ARGs response to ammonia stress in AD, which indicated the importance of alleviation of ammonia inhibition for the mitigation of ARGs dissemination.

Insights into microbial community structure and diversity in oil palm waste compost.Empty fruit bunch (EFB) and palm oil mill effluent (POME) are the major wastes generated by the oil palm industry in Malaysia. The practice of EFB and POME digester sludge co-composting has shown positive results, both in mitigating otherwise environmentally damaging waste streams and producing a useful product (compost) from these streams. In this study, the bacterial ecosystems of 12-week-old EFB-POME co-compost and POME biogas sludge from Felda Maokil, Johor were analysed using 16S metagenome sequencing. Over ten phyla were detected, with Chloroflexi being the predominant phylum, representing approximately 53% of compost and 23% of the POME microbiome reads. The main bacterial lineage found in the compost and POME was Anaerolinaceae (Chloroflexi) with 30% and 18% of the total gene fragments, respectively. The significant differences between compost and POME communities were abundances of  and . No methanogens were identified due to the bias in general 16S primers to eubacteria. The preponderance of anaerobic species in the compost and high abundance of secondary metabolite fermenting bacteria is due to an extended composting time, with anaerobic collapse of the pile due to the tropical heat. Predictive functional profiles of the metagenomes using 16S rRNA marker genes suggest that the presence of enzymes involved in degradation of polysaccharides such as glucoamylase, endoglucanase and arabinofuranosidase, all of which were strongly active in POME. Eubacterial species associated with cellulytic methanogenesis were present in both samples.

Metagenomic discovery of feruloyl esterases from rumen microflora.Feruloyl esterases (FAEs) are a key group of enzymes that hydrolyze ferulic acids ester-linked to plant polysaccharides. The cow's rumen is a highly evolved ecosystem of complex microbial microflora capable of converting fibrous substances to energy. From direct cloning of the rumen microbial metagenome, we identified seven active phagemids conferring feruloyl esterase activity. The genomic inserts ranged from 1633 to 4143 bp, and the ORFs from 681 to 1359 bp. BLAST search reveals sequence homology to feruloyl esterases and esterases/lipases identified in anaerobes. The seven genes were expressed in Escherichia coli, and the proteins were purified to homogeneity. The FAEs were found to cover types B, C, and D in the feruloyl esterase classification system using model hydroxycinnamic acid esters. The release of ferulic acid (FA) catalyzed by these enzymes was established using natural substrates corn fiber (CF) and wheat insoluble arabinoxylan (WIA). Three of the enzymes were demonstrated to cleave diferulates and hence the capability to break down Araf-FA-FA-Araf cross-links. The wide variation in the sequence, activity, and substrate specificity observed in the FAEs discovered in this study is a confirming evidence that combined actions of a full range of FAE enzymes contribute to the high-efficiency fiber digestion in the rumen microbial ecosystem.

Evaluation of bacterial association in methane generation pathways of an anaerobic digesting sludge via metagenomic sequencing.Anaerobic digestion, a recently hot technology to produce biogases especially methane generation for biofuel from wastewater, is considered an effective explanation for energy crisis and global pollution threat. A complex microbiome population is present in sludge, which plays an important role in the digestion of complex polymer into simple monomers. 16S rRNA approaches simply are not enough for amplification due to the involvement of extreme complex population. However, Illumina sequencing is a recent powerful technology to reveal the entire microbiome structure and methane generation pathways in anaerobic digestion. Metagenomic sequencing was tested to reveal the microbial structure of a digested sludge from a local wastewater treatment plant in Beijing. The Illumina HiSeq program was used to extract about 5 GB of data for metagenomic analysis. The classification investigation revealed about 97.64% dominancy of bacteria while 1.78% were detected to be archaea using MG-RAST server. The most abundant bacterial communities were reported to be Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes and Proteobacteria. Furthermore, the important microbiome involved in methane generation was revealed. The dominant methanogens were detected (Methanosaeta and Methanosarcina), with affiliation of dominant genes involved in acetoclastic methanogenesis in a digesting sludge. The metagenomic analysis showed that microbial structure and methane generation pathways were successfully dissected in an anaerobic digester.

Metagenomic approaches: effective tools for monitoring the structure and functionality of microbiomes in anaerobic digestion systems.Microbial metagenome analysis has proven its usefulness to investigate the microbiomes present in technical engineered ecosystems such as anaerobic digestion systems. The analysis of the total microbial genomic DNA allows the detailed determination of both the microbial community structure and its functionality. In addition, it enables to study the response of the microbiome to alterations in technical process parameters. Strategies of functional microbial networks to face abiotic stressors, e.g., resistance, resilience, and reorganization, can be evaluated with respect to overall process optimization. The objective of this paper is to review the main metagenomic tools used for effective studies on anaerobic digestion systems in monitoring the dynamic of the microbiomes, as well as the factors that have been identified so far as limiting the metagenomic studies in this ecosystems.

Elucidating Syntrophic Butyrate-Degrading Populations in Anaerobic Digesters Using Stable-Isotope-Informed Genome-Resolved Metagenomics.Linking the genomic content of uncultivated microbes to their metabolic functions remains a critical challenge in microbial ecology. Resolving this challenge has implications for improving our management of key microbial interactions in biotechnologies such as anaerobic digestion, which relies on slow-growing syntrophic and methanogenic communities to produce renewable methane from organic waste. In this study, we combined DNA stable-isotope probing (SIP) with genome-centric metagenomics to recover the genomes of populations enriched in C after growing on [C]butyrate. Differential abundance analysis of recovered genomic bins across the SIP metagenomes identified two metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) that were significantly enriched in heavy [C]DNA. Phylogenomic analysis assigned one MAG to the genus  and the other MAG to the genus  Metabolic reconstruction of the annotated genomes showed that the  genome encoded all the enzymes for beta-oxidizing butyrate, as well as several mechanisms for interspecies electron transfer via electron transfer flavoproteins, hydrogenases, and formate dehydrogenases. The  genome shared low average nucleotide identity (<95%) with any cultured representative species, indicating that it is a novel species that plays a significant role in syntrophic butyrate degradation within anaerobic digesters. The  genome contained the complete pathway for acetoclastic methanogenesis, indicating that it was enriched in C from syntrophic acetate transfer. This study demonstrates the potential of stable-isotope-informed genome-resolved metagenomics to identify  interspecies metabolic cooperation within syntrophic consortia important to anaerobic waste treatment as well as global carbon cycling. Predicting the metabolic potential and ecophysiology of mixed microbial communities remains a major challenge, especially for slow-growing anaerobes that are difficult to isolate. Unraveling the  metabolic activities of uncultured species may enable a more descriptive framework to model substrate transformations by microbiomes, which has broad implications for advancing the fields of biotechnology, global biogeochemistry, and human health. Here, we investigated the  function of mixed microbiomes by combining stable-isotope probing with metagenomics to identify the genomes of active syntrophic populations converting butyrate, a C fatty acid, into methane within anaerobic digesters. This approach thus moves beyond the mere presence of metabolic genes to resolve "who is doing what" by obtaining confirmatory assimilation of the labeled substrate into the DNA signature. Our findings provide a framework to further link the genomic identities of uncultured microbes with their ecological function within microbiomes driving many important biotechnological and global processes.

An NADH-Dependent Reductase from Eubacterium ramulus Catalyzes the Stereospecific Heteroring Cleavage of Flavanones and Flavanonols.The human intestinal anaerobe  is known for its ability to degrade various dietary flavonoids. In the present study, we demonstrate the cleavage of the heterocyclic C-ring of flavanones and flavanonols by an oxygen-sensitive NADH-dependent reductase, previously described as enoate reductase, from  This flavanone- and flavanonol-cleaving reductase (Fcr) was purified following its heterologous expression in  and further characterized. Fcr cleaved the flavanones naringenin, eriodictyol, liquiritigenin, and homoeriodictyol. Moreover, the flavanonols taxifolin and dihydrokaempferol served as substrates. The catalyzed reactions were stereospecific for the (2)-enantiomers of the flavanone substrates and for the (2,3)-configured flavanonols. The enantioenrichment of the nonconverted stereoisomers allowed for the determination of hitherto unknown flavanone racemization rates. Fcr formed the corresponding dihydrochalcones and hydroxydihydrochalcones in the course of an unusual reductive cleavage of cyclic ether bonds. Fcr did not convert members of other flavonoid subclasses, including flavones, flavonols, and chalcones, the latter indicating that the reaction does not involve a chalcone intermediate. This view is strongly supported by the observed enantiospecificity of Fcr. Cinnamic acids, which are typical substrates of bacterial enoate reductases, were also not reduced by Fcr. Based on the presence of binding motifs for dinucleotide cofactors and a 4Fe-4S cluster in the amino acid sequence of Fcr, a cofactor-mediated hydride transfer from NADH onto C-2 of the respective substrate is proposed. Gut bacteria play a crucial role in the metabolism of dietary flavonoids, thereby contributing to their activation or inactivation after ingestion by the human host. Thus, bacterial activities in the intestine may influence the beneficial health effects of these polyphenolic plant compounds. While an increasing number of flavonoid-converting gut bacterial species have been identified, knowledge of the responsible enzymes is still limited. Here, we characterized Fcr as a key enzyme involved in the conversion of flavonoids of several subclasses by , a prevalent human gut bacterium. Sequence similarity of this enzyme to hypothetical proteins from other flavonoid-degrading intestinal bacteria in databases suggests a more widespread occurrence of this enzyme. Functional characterization of gene products of human intestinal microbiota enables the assignment of metagenomic sequences to specific bacteria and, more importantly, to certain activities, which is a prerequisite for targeted modulation of gut microbial functionality.

Characterizing the microbial community involved in anaerobic digestion of lipid-rich wastewater to produce methane gas.This study attempted to characterize the microbial community and its role in anaerobic digestion of lipid. Reactors were fed semi-continuously with three related substrates, oil and its degradation intermediates (glycerol and long chain fatty acids (LCFAs)), with a stepwise increase in organic loading rate for 90 days. Microbial community analysis using next-generation sequencing (NGS) with the MiSeq Illumina platform revealed that Anaerolineaceae was the most dominant group of bacteria in all experiments, whereas Clostridium, Desulfovibrio, Rikenellaceae, and Treponema were observed characteristically in glycerol degradation and Leptospirales, Synergistaceae, Thermobaculaceae and Syntrophaceae were seen with high abundance in LCFA and oil mineralization. Furthermore, it was discovered that Methanosaeta was the most dominant archaea. The role of these microorganisms in the methane production from oil was estimated by comparing the microbial groups in the fermentation using three substrates, and a hypothetical pathway of the methane production was proposed.

Study on enhancing sludge methanogenesis by adding acetylene black and effect on the characteristics & microbial community of anaerobic granular sludge.The effect of acetylene black (ACET) as additives on methane production, extracellular polymeric substances (EPS), microbial community structure and methanogenesis pathway during sludge anaerobic digestion (AD) was investigated in this study. The results indicated that the addition of 2 g L ACET resulted in a 44.36% increase in methane accumulation. ACET, which resulted in the increase of EPS and VSS/TSS by 4.71-50.64%, effectively improved the physicochemical properties of anaerobic granular sludge (AnGS). During anaerobic digestion, the high throughput sequencing presented direct evidence that the ACET increased microbial diversity and enriched functional microorganisms such as , , and , which can improve the hydrolysis acidification process and the acetotrophic pathway. These results were reaffirmed by applying metagenome inference and gene content inference (16S function prediction). Microscopically, significant enhancement in the AD efficiency can be due to the methanogenesis promoted by the ACET that can construct direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) between the , , and . These results were expected to provide primary research data for improving the performance of anaerobic reactors and the development of microbial fuel cells.

in silico
Microbiome digital signature of MCR genes - an  approach to study the diversity of methanogenic population in laboratory-developed and pilot-scale anaerobic digesters.The production of biogas by anaerobic digestion (AD) of organic/biological wastes has a firm place in sustainable energy production. A simple and cost-effective anaerobic jar at a laboratory scale is a prerequisite to study the microbial community involved in biomass conversion and releasing of methane gas. In this study, a simulation was carried out using a laboratory-modified anaerobic-jar-converted digester (AD1) with that of a commercial/pilot-scale anaerobic digester (AD2). Taxonomic profiling of biogas-producing communities by means of high-throughput methyl coenzyme-M reductase α-subunit (mcrA) gene amplicon sequencing provided high-resolution insights into bacterial and archaeal structures of AD assemblages and their linkages to fed substrates and process parameters. Commonly, the bacterial phyla  , ,  and  appeared to dominate biogas communities in varying abundances depending on the apparent process conditions. Key micro-organisms identified from AD were  and  . Specific biogas production was found to be significantly correlating to  . It can be implied from this study that the metagenomic sequencing data was able to dissect the microbial community structure in the digesters. The data gathered indicates that the anaerobic-jar system could throw light on the population dynamics of the methanogens at laboratory scale and its effectiveness at large-scale production of bio-methane. The genome sequence information of non-cultivable biogas community members, metagenome sequencing including assembly and binning strategies will be highly valuable in determining the efficacy of an anaerobic digester.

Microbiome network analysis of co-occurrence patterns in anaerobic co-digestion of sewage sludge and food waste.Addition of food waste (FW) as a co-substrate in anaerobic digesters of wastewater treatment plants is a desirable strategy towards achievement of the potential of wastewater treatment plants to become energy-neutral, diverting at the same time organic waste from landfills. Because substrate type is a driver of variations in phylogenetic structure of digester microbiomes, it is critical to understand how microbial communities respond to changes in substrate composition and concentration. In this work, high throughput sequencing was used to monitor the dynamics of microbiome changes in four parallel laboratory-scale anaerobic digesters treating sewage sludge during acclimation to an increasing amount of food waste. A co-occurrence network was constructed using data from 49 metagenomes sampled over the 161 days of the digesters' operation. More than half of the nodes in the network were clustered in two major modules, i.e. groups of highly interconnected taxa that had much fewer connections with taxa outside the group. The dynamics of co-occurrence networks evidenced shifts that occurred within microbial communities due to the addition of food waste in the co-digestion process. A diverse and reproducible group of hydrolytic and fermentative bacteria, syntrophic bacteria and methanogenic archaea appeared to grow in a concerted fashion to allow stable performance of anaerobic co-digestion at high FW.

Dietary Resistant Potato Starch Alters Intestinal Microbial Communities and Their Metabolites, and Markers of Immune Regulation and Barrier Function in Swine.Interactions between diet, the microbiota, and the host set the ecological conditions in the gut and have broad implications for health. Prebiotics are dietary compounds that may shift conditions toward health by promoting the growth of beneficial microbes that produce metabolites capable of modulating host cells. This study's objective was to assess how a dietary prebiotic could impact host tissues via modulation of the intestinal microbiota. Pigs fed a diet amended with 5% resistant potato starch (RPS) exhibited alterations associated with gut health relative to swine fed an unamended control diet (CON). RPS intake increased abundances of anaerobic  in feces and several tissues, as well as intestinal concentrations of butyrate. Functional gene amplicons suggested bacteria similar to  were stimulated by RPS intake. The CON treatment exhibited increased abundances of several genera of  (which utilize respiratory metabolisms) in several intestinal locations. RPS intake increased the abundance of regulatory T cells in the cecum, but not periphery, and cecal immune status alterations were indicative of enhanced mucosal defenses. A network analysis of host and microbial changes in the cecum revealed that regulatory T cells positively correlated with butyrate concentration, luminal IgA concentration, expression of IL-6 and DEF1B, and several mucosa-associated bacterial taxa. Thus, the administration of RPS modulated the microbiota and host immune status, altering markers of cecal barrier function and immunological tolerance, and suggesting a reduced niche for bacterial respiration.

Metagenomic analysis reveals that activated carbon aids anaerobic digestion of raw incineration leachate by promoting direct interspecies electron transfer.The raw fresh leachate from municipal solid waste (MSW) incineration plants contains high concentrations of volatile fatty acids (VFAs), ammonia and metals, all compounds that severely limit anaerobic digestion treatment efficiencies. These inhibitory compounds make reactor systems unstable, causing reactor start-up periods to take more than 100 days, even when the leachate is diluted significantly. In this study, granular activated carbon (GAC) was incorporated into a bioreactor fed with raw incineration leachate. Addition of GAC allowed direct treatment of raw incineration leachate without any start-up acclimation period, while the non-amended control reactor soured immediately and collapsed within 17 days. When hydraulic retention time (HRT) of the GAC-amended reactor was stepwise decreased to increase organic loading rates (OLR) to 25.0 kgCOD/(m·d), COD removal efficiencies remained stable at >90%. Metagenomic analysis of the GAC-amended reactor revealed that Geobacter and Methanosarcina, species known to participate in direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET), were more abundant in the GAC-amended reactor than the seed sludge. In addition, the abundance of genes coding for proteins thought to be involved in DIET such as electrically conductive pili and the outer membrane c-type cytochrome, OmcS, increased significantly, while genes involved in fermentation, and nitrate (narG) and sulfate (dsrA) reduction dropped significantly as the experiment progressed. These results are significant because this is the first detailed investigation into the metabolic capabilities of microbial communities involved in efficient treatment of raw incineration leachate within biomethanogenic reactors that did not require a long start-up period.

Illustration of the microbial community selected by optimized process and nutritional parameters resulting in enhanced biomethanation of rice straw without thermo-chemical pretreatment.Effects of different process and nutritional parameters on microbial community structure and function were investigated to enhance the biomethanation of rice straw without any thermochemical pre-treatment. The study was performed in a mesophilic anaerobic digester with cattle dung slurry as inoculum. The highest methane yield of 274 ml g volatile solids was obtained from particulate rice straw (1 mm size, 7.5% solids loading rate) at 37 °C, pH-7, when supplemented with urea (carbon: nitrogen ratio, 25:1) and zinc as trace element (100 µM) at 21 days hydraulic retention time. The optimization of conditions selected Clostridium, Bacteroides, and Ruminococcus as dominant hydrolytic bacteria and Methanosarcina as the methanogen. Analysis of metagenome and metatranscriptome revealed wide array of bacterial lignocellulolytic enzymes that efficiently hydrolyzed the rice straw. The methane yield was >80% of the theoretical yield, making this green process a sustainable choice for efficient extraction of energy from rice straw.

Syntroph diversity and abundance in anaerobic digestion revealed through a comparative core microbiome approach.Anaerobic digestion is an important biotechnology treatment process for conversion of waste to energy. In this study, a comparative core microbiome approach, i.e., determining taxa that are shared in functioning digesters but not shared in non-functioning digesters, was used to determine microbial taxa that could play key roles for effective anaerobic digestion. Anaerobic digester functions were impaired by adding the broad-spectrum antimicrobial triclosan (TCS) or triclocarban (TCC) at different concentrations, and the core microbiomes in both functioning and non-functioning anaerobic digesters were compared. Digesters treated with high (2500 mg/kg) or medium (450 mg/kg) TCS and high (850 mg/kg) TCC concentrations lost their function, i.e., methane production decreased, effluent volatile fatty acid concentrations increased, and pH decreased. Changes in microbial community diversity and compositions were assessed using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. Microbial richness decreased significantly in non-functioning digesters (p < 0.001). Microbial community compositions in non-functioning digesters significantly differed from those in functioning digesters (p = 0.001, ANOSIM). Microbes identified as potentially key taxa included previously known fatty acid-degrading syntrophs and amino acid-degrading syntrophs. A diverse group of syntrophs detected in this study had low relative abundance in functioning digesters, suggesting the importance of rare microbes in anaerobic digester operation. The comparative microbiome approach used in this study can be applied to other microbial systems where a community-driven biological phenomena can be observed directly.

Crop-based composting of lignocellulosic digestates: Focus on bacterial and fungal diversity.In this study, organic matter degradation and microbial diversity were assessed during the composting of lignocellulose-rich digestates. Digestates were collected based on each crop type during anaerobic co-digestion of cow manure and barley, triticale, wheat and rye. Bacterial and fungal diversity in digestate composting systems were determined by 16S and 18S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, respectively. Crop-based composting of anaerobic digestates showed similar process trends in terms of pH, temperature, moisture content (MC) and C:N ratio. The properties of final compost products were in accordance with the national legislations regarding soil applications, except MC, which were therefore air-dried before being amended to soil. Most abundant bacterial genera were represented by Luteimonas, Bacillus, Ochrobactrum and Thermobifida. Meanwhile, Thermomyces, Aspergillus, Galactomyces and Neurospora were detected as the predominant fungal genera in all compost samples.

Microbial community dynamics in anaerobic digesters treating conventional and vacuum toilet flushed blackwater.Decentralized wastewater treatment represents a promising sustainable option for future wastewater management. Blackwater collected from toilets contains high concentrations of organic matter, ideal for energy recovery using anaerobic digestion. Up-flow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactors treating conventional toilet (CT, 9 L water per flush) and vacuum toilet (VT, 1 L water per flush) blackwater with increments of loadings were successfully operated to steady state in three phases. The organic loading rates were maintained at comparable levels between the two reactors. The methanisation rates were 0.23-0.29 and 0.41-0.48 gCH-COD/gfeedCOD in the CT and VT reactors, and the COD removal rates were 72% and 89%, respectively. The enriched microbial consortia and the community dynamics under different loading phases were compared. The rank abundance distributions and alpha-diversity showed that archaeal communities were predominated by mono-enrichments in both CT and VT reactors, while bacterial communities showed lower diversity in the VT reactor. Through principal coordinates analysis (beta-diversity), clear divergences of archaeal and bacterial communities between the CT and VT reactors were revealed, and the archaeal community developed at a slower rate than the bacterial community. The enriched archaea were hydrogenotrophic methanogens, Methanolinea in the CT reactor (56.6%), and Methanogenium in the VT reactor (62.3%). The enriched bacteria were Porphyromonadaceae in both CT (15.9%) and VT (13.4%) reactors, sulfate-reducing bacteria in the CT reactor, and Fibrobacteraceae in the VT reactor (13.8%). Links between enriched consortia and ammonia stress were discussed. Isotope fraction analysis of the biogas showed a slight shift from acetoclastic methanogenesis to hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis. A closer look into the predicted metagenomic functional profiles showed agreeing results, where hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis and fhs gene abundances were higher in the VT reactor. We demonstrated that different blackwater types enriched different microbial consortia, probably due to ammonia concentrations and sulfate loadings, which should be taken into consideration for practical applications.

Carbohydrate Hydrolytic Potential and Redundancy of an Anaerobic Digestion Microbiome Exposed to Acidosis, as Uncovered by Metagenomics.Increased hydrolysis of easily digestible biomass may lead to acidosis of anaerobic reactors and decreased methane production. Previously, it was shown that the structure of microbial communities changed during acidosis; however, once the conditions are back to optimal, biogas (initially CO) production quickly restarts. This suggests the retention of the community functional redundancy during the process failure. In this study, with the use of metagenomics and downstream bioinformatics analyses, we characterize the carbohydrate hydrolytic potential of the microbial community, with a special focus on acidosis. To that purpose, carbohydrate-active enzymes were identified, and to further link the community hydrolytic potential with key microbes, bacterial genomes were reconstructed. In addition, we characterized biochemically the specificity and activity of selected enzymes, thus verifying the accuracy of the  predictions. The results confirm the retention of the community hydrolytic potential during acidosis and indicate  to be largely involved in biomass degradation.  showed higher diversity and genomic content of carbohydrate hydrolytic enzymes that might favor the dominance of this phylum over other bacteria in some anaerobic reactors. The combination of bioinformatic analyses and activity tests enabled us to propose a model of acetylated glucomannan degradation by  The enzymatic hydrolysis of lignocellulosic biomass is mainly driven by the action of carbohydrate-active enzymes. By characterizing the gene profiles at the different stages of the anaerobic digestion experiment, we showed that the microbiome retains its hydrolytic functional redundancy even during severe acidosis, despite significant changes in taxonomic composition. By analyzing reconstructed bacterial genomes, we demonstrate that  hydrolytic gene diversity likely favors the abundance of this phylum in some anaerobic digestion systems. Further, we observe genetic redundancy within the  group, which accounts for the preserved hydrolytic potential during acidosis. This work also uncovers new polysaccharide utilization loci involved in the deconstruction of various biomasses and proposes the model of acetylated glucomannan degradation by  Acetylated glucomannan-enriched biomass is a common substrate for many industries, including pulp and paper production. Using naturally evolved cocktails of enzymes for biomass pretreatment could be an interesting alternative to the commonly used chemical pretreatments.

Infection-Induced Intestinal Dysbiosis Is Mediated by Macrophage Activation and Nitrate Production.Oral infection of C57BL/6J mice with  results in a marked bacterial dysbiosis and the development of severe pathology in the distal small intestine that is dependent on CD4 T cells and interferon gamma (IFN-γ). This dysbiosis and bacterial translocation contribute to the development of ileal pathology, but the factors that support the bloom of bacterial pathobionts are unclear. The use of microbial community profiling and shotgun metagenomics revealed that  infection induces a dysbiosis dominated by  and an increased potential for nitrate respiration.  experiments using bacterial metabolic mutants revealed that during this infection, host-derived nitrate supports the expansion of  in the ileum via nitrate respiration. Additional experiments with infected mice indicate that the IFN-γ/STAT1/iNOS axis, while essential for parasite control, also supplies a pool of nitrate that serves as a source for anaerobic respiration and supports overgrowth of  Together, these data reveal a trade-off in intestinal immunity after oral infection of C57BL/6J mice with , in which inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) is required for parasite control, while this host enzyme is responsible for specific modification of the composition of the microbiome that contributes to pathology. is a protozoan parasite and a leading cause of foodborne illness. Infection is initiated when the parasite invades the intestinal epithelium, and in many host species, this leads to intense inflammation and a dramatic disruption of the normal microbial ecosystem that resides in the healthy gut (the so-called microbiome). One characteristic change in the microbiome during infection with -as well as numerous other pathogens-is the overgrowth of  or similar bacteria and a breakdown of commensal containment leading to seeding of peripheral organs with gut bacteria and subsequent sepsis. Our findings provide one clear explanation for how this process is regulated, thereby improving our understanding of the relationship between parasite infection, inflammation, and disease. Furthermore, our results could serve as the basis for the development of novel therapeutics to reduce the potential for harmful bacteria to bloom in the gut during infection.

Biogas-producing microbial composition of an anaerobic digester and associated bovine residues.Influenced by feedstock type and microbial inoculum, different microbial groups must precisely interact for high-quality biogas yields. As a first approach for optimization, this study aimed to identify through time the biogas-producing microbial community in a 10-ton dry anaerobic digester treating cattle manure by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and metagenomics. Moreover, the associated bovine residues or feedstocks (leachate, manure, oxidation lagoon water, rumen) were also characterized to determine their contribution. A diverse and dynamic community characterized by Bacteria (82%-88%) and a considerable amount of Archaea (8%-15%) presented profiles particular to each stage of biogas production. Eukaryotes (2.6%-3.6%), mainly fungi, were a minor but stable component. Proteobacteria represented 47% of the community at the start of the run but only 18% at the end, opposite to the Bacteroidetes/Chlorobi group (8% and 20%, respectively), while Firmicutes (12%-18%) and Actinobacteria (12%-32%) remained relatively constant. Methanogens of the order Methanomicrobiales represented by several species of Methanoculleus were abundant at the end of the run (77%) contrary to Methanosarcinales (11%) and Methanobacteriales (0.7%). Therefore, methanogenesis mainly occurred by the hydrogenotrophic pathway. Manure and oxidation lagoon water seemed to contribute key microorganisms, while rumen dominated by Methanobrevibacter (72%) did not proliferate in the digester. Manure particularly possessed Methanoculleus (24%) and uncultured methanogens identified by DGGE, whereas oxidation lagoon was exclusively abundant in Methanolinea (18%) and Methanosaeta (19%). Leachate, as the microbial inoculum from a previous run, adequately preserved the biogas-producing community. These results could lead to higher biogas yields through bioaugmentation strategies by incorporating higher proportions or an enriched inoculum from the relevant feedstocks.

Invited review: Application of meta-omics to understand the dynamic nature of the rumen microbiome and how it responds to diet in ruminants.Ruminants are unique among livestock due to their ability to efficiently convert plant cell wall carbohydrates into meat and milk. This ability is a result of the evolution of an essential symbiotic association with a complex microbial community in the rumen that includes vast numbers of bacteria, methanogenic archaea, anaerobic fungi and protozoa. These microbes produce a diverse array of enzymes that convert ingested feedstuffs into volatile fatty acids and microbial protein which are used by the animal for growth. Recent advances in high-throughput sequencing and bioinformatic analyses have helped to reveal how the composition of the rumen microbiome varies significantly during the development of the ruminant host, and with changes in diet. These sequencing efforts are also beginning to explain how shifts in the microbiome affect feed efficiency. In this review, we provide an overview of how meta-omics technologies have been applied to understanding the rumen microbiome, and the impact that diet has on the rumen microbial community.

A pilin chaperone required for the expression of electrically conductive Geobacter sulfurreducens pili.Mechanisms controlling the expression of the electrically conductive pili (e-pili) of Geobacter species are of interest because of the important role of e-pili in diverse biogeochemical processes, anaerobic digestion and electromicrobiological applications. We investigated the function of the protein, designated Spc (short pilin chaperone), encoded by the gene immediately downstream from the gene for PilA, the monomer that assembles into e-pili. Multiple lines of evidence suggest that Spc forms an oligomer that is associated with the inner membrane. Mutating the start codon of spc to prevent translation increased the transcript abundance of pilA but greatly diminished the abundance of PilA, and e-pili could no longer be detected. Cross-linking, protein capture and two-hybrid studies demonstrated that Spc and PilA interacted. Two sites in PilA for electrostatic interaction with Spc were identified. The results demonstrate that Spc is required for PilA stability prior to incorporation into e-pili, suggesting that Spc has a chaperone function that may be specific to the relatively short PilA monomers that assemble into e-pili. These results are important for identifying microorganisms likely to express e-pili from (meta)genomic data and for the construction of microbial strains expressing e-pili.

Different response of bacteria, archaea and fungi to process parameters in nine full-scale anaerobic digesters.Biogas production is a biotechnological process realized by complex bacterial, archaeal and likely fungal communities. Their composition was assessed in nine full-scale biogas plants with distinctly differing feedstock input and process parameters. This study investigated the actually active microbial community members by using a comprehensive sequencing approach based on ribosomal 16S and 28S rRNA fragments. The prevailing taxonomical units of each respective community were subsequently linked to process parameters. Ribosomal rRNA of bacteria, archaea and fungi, respectively, showed different compositions with respect to process parameters and supplied feedstocks: (i) bacterial communities were affected by the key factors temperature and ammonium concentration; (ii) composition of archaea was mainly related to process temperature; and (iii) relative abundance of fungi was linked to feedstocks supplied to the digesters. Anaerobic digesters with a high methane yield showed remarkably similar bacterial communities regarding identified taxonomic families. Although archaeal communities differed strongly on genus level from each other, the respective digesters still showed high methane yields. Functional redundancy of the archaeal communities may explain this effect. 28S rRNA sequences of fungi in all nine full-scale anaerobic digesters were primarily classified as facultative anaerobic Ascomycota and Basidiomycota. Since the presence of ribosomal 28S rRNA indicates that fungi may be active in the biogas digesters, further research should be carried out to examine to which extent they are important players in anaerobic digestion processes.

Thermophilic anaerobic digestion reduces ARGs in excess sludge even under high oxytetracycline concentrations.The feasibility of thermophilic anaerobic digestion (AD) for the attenuation of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) in biomass wastes under high antibiotic concentrations remains unclear. In this study, a thermophilic completely stirred digester (55 °C) was fed with municipal excess sludge spiked with increasing concentrations of oxytetracycline (OTC) (0-1000 mg/L) over a period of 280 days. Results showed that thermophilic AD could maintain stable methane production (338.40 ± 26.26 mL/d/gVS) even at an OTC dose of 1000 mg/L with the sludge phase OTC concentration reaching around 24,000 mg/kg. More important, the abundance of resistome detected by high-throughput quantitative PCR in the substrate was reduced (p < 0.01) by 55.54%-86.27% by thermophilic AD over the whole period. Partial canonical correspondence and network analyses showed that the reduction of ARGs was achieved mainly through two ways: eliminating the original hosts of ARGs in the substrate (from 41.74% ± 2.60% in the substrate to 12.08% ± 1.02% in digested sludge), and blocking the horizontal proliferation of ARGs in the digested sludge by reducing the abundance of mobile genetic elements and restricting their horizontal exchange within a small number of thermophilic genera. This study showed that thermophilic AD is feasible for the attenuation of ARGs in biomass even containing high level of OTC.

Rare Taxa Exhibit Disproportionate Cell-Level Metabolic Activity in Enriched Anaerobic Digestion Microbial Communities.Microbial communities are composed of populations with vastly different abundances and levels of metabolic and replicative activity, ranging from actively metabolizing and dividing to dormant or nonviable. The 16S rRNA/rDNA ratio is an emerging tool for evaluating cell-level metabolic activity independent of abundance. In this study, we used five long-term enriched model anaerobic digestion (AD) communities to investigate community composition, diversity, structure, and in particular activity based on the rRNA/rDNA ratio. We cross-validated the 16S amplicon-based results using two alternative operational taxonomic unit (OTU) formation methods (conventional 97% sequence similarity and 100% sequence similar zero-radius OTUs by UNOISE3) and compared these to metagenome-derived population genomes and metatranscriptomes. Significant positive correlations were observed between microbial total activity and abundance with both the amplicon- and omic-based methods. All three methods revealed disproportionately high transcription/abundance ratios for some rare taxa but lower ratios for most abundant taxa for all the communities, which was further corroborated by the high replication rate (iRep) of most low-abundance population genomes.  Variation in microbial activity levels is increasingly being recognized as both an important dimension in community function and a complicating factor in sequencing-based survey methods. This study extends previous reports that rare taxa may contribute disproportionately to community activity in some natural environments, showing that this may also hold in artificially maintained model communities with well-described inputs, outputs, and biochemical functions. These results demonstrate that assessment of activity levels using the rRNA/rDNA ratio is robust across taxonomic unit formation methods and is independently corroborated by omics methods. The results also provide insight into the comparative advantages and disadvantages of different taxonomic unit formation methods in amplicon sequencing studies, showing that UNOISE3 provides comparable microbial diversity, structure, and activity information as the 97% sequence similarity method but potentially loses some phylogenetic diversity and creates more "phantom taxa" (which are present in the RNA pool but not the corresponding DNA pool).

Fungal bioaugmentation of anaerobic digesters fed with lignocellulosic biomass: What to expect from anaerobic fungus Orpinomyces sp.Energy-efficient biogas reactors are often designed and operated mimicking natural microbial ecosystems such as the digestive tracts of ruminants. Anaerobic fungi play a crucial role in the degradation of lignocellulose-rich fiber thanks to their high cellulolytic activity. Fungal bioaugmentation is therefore at the heart of our understanding of enhancing anaerobic digestion (AD). The efficiency of bioaugmentation with anaerobic fungus Orpinomyces sp. was evaluated in lignocellulose-based AD configurations. Fungal bioaugmentation increased the methane yield by 15-33% during anaerobic co-digestion of cow manure and selected cereal crops/straws. Harvesting stage of the crops was a decisive parameter to influence methane production together with fungal bioaugmentation. A more efficient fermentation process in the bioaugmented digesters was distinguished by relatively-higher abundance of Synergistetes, which was mainly represented by the genus Anaerobaculum. On the contrary, the composition of the methanogenic archaea did not change, and the majority of methanogens was assigned to Methanosarcina.

Novel ecological insights and functional roles during anaerobic digestion of saccharides unveiled by genome-centric metagenomics.In typical anaerobic digestion (AD) systems, the microbial functional assertion is hampered by synchronised versatile metabolism required for heterogeneous substrates degradation. Thus, the intricate methanogenic process from organic compounds remains an enigma after decades of empirical operation. In this study, simplified AD microbial communities were obtained with substrate specifications and continuous reactor operation. Genome-centric metagenomic approach was followed to holistically investigate the metabolic pathways of the AD and the microbial synergistic networks. In total, 63 metagenome assembled genomes (MAGs) were assembled from 8 metagenomes acquired in specific methanogenic niches. The metabolic pathways were reconstructed from the annotated genes and their dynamicity under experimental conditions. The results show that the methanogenic niches nourish unique metabolism beyond current knowledge acquired from cultivation-based methods. A novel glucose mineralization model without acetate formation was proposed and asserted in a pair of syntrophs: Clostridiaceae sp. and Methanoculleus thermophilus. Moreover, the catabolic pathway was elucidated in uncharacterized syntrophic acetate oxidizers, Synergistaceae spp. A remarkable evolutionary insight is the discovery that electron transport and energy conservation mechanisms impose selective pressure on syntrophic partners. Overall, the functional roles of the individual microbes tightly rely on the catabolic pathways and cannot always be physiologically defined in accordance with conventional four-step AD concept. The substrate-specific systems provided a traceable microbial community to dissecting the AD process. The genome-centric metagenomics successfully constructed genomes of microbes that have not been previously isolated and illustrated metabolic pathways that beyond the current knowledge of AD process. This study provides new perspectives to unravel the AD microbial ecology and suggests more attention should be paid on uncharacterized metabolism specifically harboured by AD microbial communities.

The bacterial aetiology of pleural empyema. A descriptive and comparative metagenomic study.The view of pleural empyema as a complication of bacterial pneumonia is changing because many patients lack evidence of underlying pneumonia. To further our understanding of pathophysiological mechanisms, we conducted in-depth microbiological characterization of empyemas in clinically well-characterized patients and investigated observed microbial parallels between pleural empyemas and brain abscesses.
Culture-positive and/or 16S rRNA gene PCR-positive pleural fluids were analysed using massive parallel sequencing of the 16S rRNA and rpoB genes. Clinical details were evaluated by medical record review. Comparative analysis with brain abscesses was performed using metagenomic data from a national Norwegian study.
Sixty-four individuals with empyema were included. Thirty-seven had a well-defined microbial aetiology, while 27, all of whom had community-acquired infections, did not. In the latter subset, Fusobacterium nucleatum and/or Streptococcus intermedius was detected in 26 patients, of which 18 had additional facultative and/or anaerobic species in various combinations. For this group, there was 65.5% species overlap with brain abscesses; predisposing factors included dental infection, minor chest trauma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, drug abuse, alcoholism and diabetes mellitus. Altogether, massive parallel sequencing yielded 385 bacterial detections, whereas culture detected 38 (10%) and 16S rRNA gene PCR/Sanger-based sequencing detected 87 (23%).
A subgroup of pleural empyema appears to be caused by a set of bacteria not normally considered to be involved in pneumonia. Such empyemas appear to have a similar microbial profile to oral/sinus-derived brain abscesses, supporting spread from the oral cavity, potentially haematogenously. We suggest reserving the term 'primary empyema' for these infections.

Metatranscriptomic and Thermodynamic Insights into Medium-Chain Fatty Acid Production Using an Anaerobic Microbiome.Biomanufacturing from renewable feedstocks can offset fossil fuel-based chemical production. One potential biomanufacturing strategy is production of medium-chain fatty acids (MCFA) from organic feedstocks using either pure cultures or microbiomes. While the set of microbes in a microbiome can often metabolize organic materials of greater diversity than a single species can and while the role of specific species may be known, knowledge of the carbon and energy flow within and between organisms in MCFA-producing microbiomes is only now starting to emerge. Here, we integrated metagenomic, metatranscriptomic, and thermodynamic analyses to predict and characterize the metabolic network of an anaerobic microbiome producing MCFA from organic matter derived from lignocellulosic ethanol fermentation conversion residue. A total of 37 high-quality (>80% complete, <10% contamination) metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) were recovered from the microbiome, and metabolic reconstruction of the 10 most abundant MAGs was performed. Metabolic reconstruction combined with metatranscriptomic analysis predicted that organisms affiliated with  and  would degrade carbohydrates and ferment sugars to lactate and acetate. - and -affiliated organisms were predicted to transform these fermentation products to MCFA. Thermodynamic analyses identified conditions under which H is expected to be either produced or consumed, suggesting a potential role of H partial pressure in MCFA production. From an integrated systems analysis perspective, we propose that MCFA production could be improved if microbiomes were engineered to use homofermentative instead of heterofermentative  and if MCFA-producing organisms were engineered to preferentially use a thioesterase instead of a coenzyme A (CoA) transferase as the terminal enzyme in reverse β-oxidation.  Mixed communities of microbes play important roles in health, the environment, agriculture, and biotechnology. While tapping the combined activities of organisms within microbiomes may allow the utilization of a wider range of substrates in preference to the use of pure cultures for biomanufacturing, harnessing the metabolism of these mixed cultures remains a major challenge. Here, we predicted metabolic functions of bacteria in a microbiome that produces medium-chain fatty acids from a renewable feedstock. Our findings lay the foundation for efforts to begin addressing how to engineer and control microbiomes for improved biomanufacturing, how to build synthetic mixtures of microbes that produce valuable chemicals from renewable resources, and how to better understand the microbial communities that contribute to health, agriculture, and the environment.

Microbial activity response to hydrogen injection in thermophilic anaerobic digesters revealed by genome-centric metatranscriptomics.The expansion of renewable energy produced by windmills and photovoltaic panels has generated a considerable electricity surplus, which can be utilized in water electrolysis systems for hydrogen production. The resulting hydrogen can then be funneled to anaerobic digesters for biogas upgrading (biomethanation) purposes (power-to-methane) or to produce high value-added compounds such as short-chain fatty acids (power-to-chemicals). Genome-centric metagenomics and metatranscriptomic analyses were performed to better understand the metabolic dynamics associated with H injection in two different configurations of anaerobic digesters treating acidic wastes, specifically cheese manufacturing byproducts. These approaches revealed the key-genes involved in methanation and carbon fixation pathways at species level.
The biogas upgrading process in the single-stage configuration increased the CH content by 7%. The dominant methanogenic species responsible for the upregulation of the hydrogenotrophic pathway in this reactor was Methanothermobacter wolfeii UC0008. In the two-stage configuration, H injection induced an upregulation of CO fixation pathways producing short-chain fatty acids, mainly acetate and butyrate. In this configuration, the abundant species Anaerobaculum hydrogeniformans UC0046 and Defluviitoga tunisiensis UC0050 primarily upregulated genes related to electron transport chains, suggesting putative syntrophisms with hydrogen scavenger microbes. Interestingly, Tepidanaerobacter acetatoxydans UC0018 did not act as an acetate-oxidizer in either reactor configurations, and instead regulated pathways involved in acetate production and uptake. A putative syntrophic association between Coprothermobacter proteolyticus UC0011 and M. wolfeii UC0008 was proposed in the two-stage reactor. In order to support the transcriptomic findings regarding the hydrogen utilization routes, an advanced bioconversion model was adapted for the simulation of the single- and two-stage reactor setups.
This is the first study investigating biogas reactor metatranscriptome dynamics following hydrogen injection for biomethanation and carbon fixation to short-chain fatty acids purposes. The same microbes showed different patterns of metabolic regulation in the two reactor configurations. It was observed an effect of the specialized acidogenic reactor on the overall microbial consortium composition and activity in the two-stage digester. There were also suggested the main species responsible for methanation, short-chain fatty acids production, and electron transport chain mechanisms, in both reactor configurations.

Metagenomic characterisation of ruminal bacterial diversity in buffaloes from birth to adulthood using 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing.Microbial colonisation in the forestomach of a ruminant is one of the most crucial factors in determining many of its physiological developments and digestive capabilities. The present study attempts to identify establishment pattern of microbes in relation to food, age and rumen development in the buffalo calves at every fortnight interval from birth to 6 months of age, followed by every month till animals became 1 year of age. Diversity study based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing identified rapidly changing bacterial population during initial 60 days of life, which got assemblage as rumen became physiologically mature with increasing age of animals. A lactate fermenting aerobic to facultative anaerobic genera found during initial 30 days of life were expeditiously replaced by strict anaerobic cellulolytic bacterial population with increasing age. The study confirms that initial colonisation mainly depends on the oral cavity and skin of the mother, followed by the surrounding environment and feed offered, which is reversed in order once animal gets older. Some of the well-described genera based on culture-dependent studies like Ruminococcus spp. were found to be in lesser proportion suggesting an additional role of other microbes or niche in cellulose degradation. We report the presence of Porphyromonas spp. and Mannheimia glucosidal for the first time in bovine infants.

Diversity-Function Relationships in Natural, Applied, and Engineered Microbial Ecosystems.The connection between ecosystem function and taxonomic diversity has been of interest and relevance to macroecologists for decades. After many years of lagging behind due to the difficulty of assigning both taxonomy and function to poorly distinguishable microscopic cells, microbial ecology now has access to a suite of powerful molecular tools which allow its practitioners to generate data relating to diversity and function of a microbial community on an unprecedented scale. Instead, the problem facing today's microbial ecologists is coupling the ease of generation of these datasets with the formulation and testing of workable hypotheses relating the diversity and function of environmental, host-associated, and engineered microbial communities. Here, we review the current state of knowledge regarding the links between taxonomic alpha- and beta-diversity and ecosystem function, comparing our knowledge in this area to that obtained by macroecologists who use more traditional techniques. We consider the methodologies that can be applied to study these properties and how successful they are at linking function to diversity, using examples from the study of model microbial ecosystems, methanogenic bioreactors (anaerobic digesters), and host-associated microbiota. Finally, we assess ways in which our newly acquired understanding might be used to manipulate diversity in ecosystems of interest in order to improve function for the benefit of us or the environment in general through the provision of ecosystem services.

From proteins to polysaccharides: lifestyle and genetic evolution of Coprothermobacter proteolyticus.Microbial communities that degrade lignocellulosic biomass are typified by high levels of species- and strain-level complexity, as well as synergistic interactions between both cellulolytic and non-cellulolytic microorganisms. Coprothermobacter proteolyticus frequently dominates thermophilic, lignocellulose-degrading communities with wide geographical distribution, which is in contrast to reports that it ferments proteinaceous substrates and is incapable of polysaccharide hydrolysis. Here we deconvolute a highly efficient cellulose-degrading consortium (SEM1b) that is co-dominated by Clostridium (Ruminiclostridium) thermocellum and multiple heterogenic strains affiliated to C. proteolyticus. Metagenomic analysis of SEM1b recovered metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) for each constituent population, whereas in parallel two novel strains of C. proteolyticus were successfully isolated and sequenced. Annotation of all C. proteolyticus genotypes (two strains and one MAG) revealed their genetic acquisition of carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes), presumably derived from horizontal gene transfer (HGT) events involving polysaccharide-degrading Firmicutes or Thermotogae-affiliated populations that are historically co-located. HGT material included a saccharolytic operon, from which a CAZyme was biochemically characterized and demonstrated hydrolysis of multiple hemicellulose polysaccharides. Finally, temporal genome-resolved metatranscriptomic analysis of SEM1b revealed expression of C. proteolyticus CAZymes at different SEM1b life stages as well as co-expression of CAZymes from multiple SEM1b populations, inferring deeper microbial interactions that are dedicated toward community degradation of cellulose and hemicellulose. We show that C. proteolyticus, a ubiquitous population, consists of closely related strains that have adapted via HGT to presumably degrade both oligo- and longer polysaccharides present in decaying plants and microbial cell walls, thus explaining its dominance in thermophilic anaerobic digesters on a global scale.

Machine learning analysis of microbial flow cytometry data from nanoparticles, antibiotics and carbon sources perturbed anaerobic microbiomes.Flow cytometry, with its high throughput nature, combined with the ability to measure an increasing number of cell parameters at once can surpass the throughput of prevalent genomic and metagenomic approaches in the study of microbiomes. Novel computational approaches to analyze flow cytometry data will result in greater insights and actionability as compared to traditional tools used in the analysis of microbiomes. This paper is a demonstration of the fruitfulness of machine learning in analyzing microbial flow cytometry data generated in anaerobic microbiome perturbation experiments.
Autoencoders were found to be powerful in detecting anomalies in flow cytometry data from nanoparticles and carbon sources perturbed anaerobic microbiomes but was marginal in predicting perturbations due to antibiotics. A comparison between different algorithms based on predictive capabilities suggested that gradient boosting (GB) and deep learning, i.e. feed forward artificial neural network with three hidden layers (DL) were marginally better under tested conditions at predicting overall community structure while distributed random forests (DRF) worked better for predicting the most important putative microbial group(s) in the anaerobic digesters viz. methanogens, and it can be optimized with better parameter tuning. Predictive classification patterns with DL (feed forward artificial neural network with three hidden layers) were found to be comparable to previously demonstrated multivariate analysis. The potential applications of this approach have been demonstrated for monitoring the syntrophic resilience of the anaerobic microbiomes perturbed by synthetic nanoparticles as well as antibiotics.
Machine learning can benefit the microbial flow cytometry research community by providing rapid screening and characterization tools to discover patterns in the dynamic response of microbiomes to several stimuli.

Development and characterization of stable anaerobic thermophilic methanogenic microbiomes fermenting switchgrass at decreasing residence times.Anaerobic fermentation of lignocellulose occurs in both natural and managed environments, and is an essential part of the carbon cycle as well as a promising route to sustainable production of fuels and chemicals. Lignocellulose solubilization by mixed microbiomes is important in these contexts.
Here, we report the development of stable switchgrass-fermenting enrichment cultures maintained at various residence times and moderately high (55 °C) temperatures. Anaerobic microbiomes derived from a digester inoculum were incubated at 55 °C and fed semi-continuously with medium containing 30 g/L mid-season harvested switchgrass to achieve residence times (RT) of 20, 10, 5, and 3.3 days. Stable, time-invariant cellulolytic methanogenic cultures with minimal accumulation of organic acids were achieved for all RTs. Fractional carbohydrate solubilization was 0.711, 0.654, 0.581 and 0.538 at RT = 20, 10, 5 and 3.3 days, respectively, and glucan solubilization was proportional to xylan solubilization at all RTs. The rate of solubilization was described well by the equation  = ( - ), where  represents the concentration of unutilized carbohydrate,  is the concentration of carbohydrate (cellulose and hemicellulose) entering the bioreactor and  is the extrapolated fraction of entering carbohydrate that is recalcitrant at infinite residence time. The 3.3 day RT is among the shortest RT reported for stable thermophilic, methanogenic digestion of a lignocellulosic feedstock. 16S rDNA phylotyping and metagenomic analyses were conducted to characterize the effect of RT on community dynamics and to infer functional roles in the switchgrass to biogas conversion to the various microbial taxa. Firmicutes were the dominant phylum, increasing in relative abundance from 54 to 96% as RT decreased. A  strain with genetic markers for xylose metabolism was the most abundant lignocellulose-solubilizing bacterium. A Thermotogae () was the most abundant bacterium in switchgrass digesters at RT = 20 days but decreased in abundance at lower RTs as did multiple Chloroflexi. Synergistetes and Euryarchaeota were present at roughly constant levels over the range of RTs examined.
A system was developed in which stable methanogenic steady-states were readily obtained with a particulate biomass feedstock, mid-season switchgrass, at laboratory (1 L) scale. Characterization of the extent and rate of carbohydrate solubilization in combination with 16S rDNA and metagenomic sequencing provides a multi-dimensional view of performance, species composition, glycoside hydrolases, and metabolic function with varying residence time. These results provide a point of reference and guidance for future studies and organism development efforts involving defined cultures.

A little breath of fresh air into an anaerobic system: How microaeration facilitates anaerobic digestion process.Exposure of a small amount of oxygen/air (microaeration) has been reported to benefit the anaerobic digestion (AD) process in enhancing hydrolysis, improving methane yield, stabilizing the process and scavenging hydrogen sulfide among others. The underlying mechanism of enhancing AD process via microaeration is the augmentation of activity and diversity of the microbial consortia that promotes syntrophic interactions among different microbial groups, thereby creating a more stable process. To design and implement a microaeration-based AD process, fundamental insights about the mechanism of the AD system at process, microbial and molecular levels must be fully explored. This review critically examines microaeration-based AD processes through our recent understandings of the effect of oxygen on microbial community structure, enzymatic, energetic, physiological, and biochemical aspects of the microbial-mediated process. Syntrophic interactions between hydrolytic, fermentative, sulfate reducing, syntrophic bacteria and methanogens under microaerobic conditions are examined to reveal putative mechanism and factors that need to be considered when implementing microaeration in AD process. Further studies are needed to better understand the microbial pathways and bioenergetics of the microaerobic AD process by adopting advanced molecular techniques such as metagenomics, transcriptomics, and proteomics.

Characterization of bacterial microbiota compositions along the intestinal tract in pigs and their interactions and functions.In addition to its value in meat production, the pig is an interesting animal model for human digestive tract studies due to its physiological similarities. The aim of this study was to describe the microbiome composition, distribution and interaction along the Iberian pig intestinal tract and its role in whole-body energy homeostasis. The V3-V4 region of the 16S rRNA gene was amplified and sequenced from the microbiomes of five gut sections (duodenum, jejunum, ileum, and proximal and distal colon) in thirteen castrated male pigs. A total of 1,669 operational taxonomic units distributed in 179 genera were found among all samples. The two most abundant genera in the small intestine were Lactobacillus and Clostridium, while Prevotella was predominant in the colon. The colon samples were more similar among the pigs and richer in species than the small intestine samples were. In the small intestine, the metagenome prediction pointed to rapid internalization and conversion of the available simple carbohydrates for microbial proliferation and maintenance. In the colon, a competition among anaerobic bacteria for plant polysaccharide degradation to produce short chain fatty acids was found. This study confirms that the energy pathways of the gut microbiome differ along its sections and provides a description of the correlations between genera.

Metagenomic assessment of the microbial community and methanogenic pathways in biosolids from a municipal wastewater treatment plant in Medellín, Colombia.Abundance and diversity of microbial communities in biosolids are variable and poorly studied in the tropics, and it is known that rainfall is one of the events that could affect the phylogenetic and functional microbial structure. In the present study, using NGS technics, we studied the microbial diversity as well as the methanogenesis pathway in one of the largest WWTP in Colombia. Besides, we sampled and analyzed biosolids from rainy season and dry season. Phylogenetic classification showed a predominance of bacteria in both samples and difference in the dominant groups depending on the rainfall season. Whereas Pseudomonas was the dominant bacteria in the dry season, Coprothermobacter was in the rainy season. Archaea abundance was higher in the rainy season (11.5%) doubling dry season proportion. The bioreactor biogas production and total solids content showed similar results between rainy and dry season at the sampling dates. The most abundant Archaea related with methanogenesis was Methanosaeta, which is a methanogenic microorganism that exclusively uses acetate to produce methane. Moreover, annotation of the methanogenic pathway in the metagenome showed abundance in genes encoding Acetyl-CoA synthetases (ACSS), an enzyme that catalyzes acetate activation. Our results suggest that the microbial diversity was stable among the two time points tested, rainy season and dry season; and, although there were changes in the microbial abundance of dominant bacterial species, anaerobic digester performance is not affected.

Predominance of syntrophic bacteria, Methanosaeta and Methanoculleus in a two-stage up-flow anaerobic sludge blanket reactor treating coffee processing wastewater at high organic loading rate.The effect of the organic loading rate (OLR) on the performance and microbial composition of a two-stage UASB system treating coffee processing wastewater was assessed. The system was operated with OLR up to 18.2 g COD (L d) and effluent recirculation. Methane production and effluent characteristics were monitored. The microbial composition was examined through next-generation sequencing and qPCR from the anaerobic sludge of the first reactor (R1) operated at low and high OLR. The system showed operational stability, obtaining a maximum methane production of 2.2 L CH (L d), with a removal efficiency of COD and phenolic compounds of 84 and 73%, respectively. The performance of R1 at high OLR in steady conditions was associated with an appropriate proportion of nutrients (particularly Fe) and a marked increase of the syntrophic bacteria Syntrophus and Candidatus Cloacimonas, and acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogens, mainly Methanosaeta, Methanoculleus, Methanobacterium and Methanomassiliicoccus.

Solubilization of Organics Due to Thermal Hydrolysis Pretreatment and the Shift in Microbial Population in Anaerobic Digestion.A study was conducted to analyze the effect of solubilization due to thermal hydrolysis pretreatment on the microbial population responsible for anaerobic digestion at mesophilic temperature. Metagenomic and microbial population analysis was done on digesters receiving sludge with and without thermal hydrolysis pretreatment. The digester receiving thermal hydrolysis pretreatment was stable at lower detention times and showed a shift in microbial population with predominance of methane-producing population in comparison to conventional digesters receiving no thermal hydrolysis pretreatment. Among methanogens, Methanosarcina showed dominance in the thermal hydrolysis pretreatment digester. Digesters with no thermal hydrolysis pretreatment had a mixed culture of acid-producing bacteria and methane-producing archaea, with almost equal proportion of methane-producing Methanobacterium and Methanosarcina. Kinetic parameters showed high growth and substrate utilization rates in digester receiving thermal hydrolysis pretreatment.

Metagenomics reveal triclosan-induced changes in the antibiotic resistome of anaerobic digesters.Triclosan (TCS) is a broad-spectrum antimicrobial used in a variety of consumer products. While it was recently banned from hand soaps in the US, it is still a key ingredient in a top-selling toothpaste. TCS is a hydrophobic micropollutant that is recalcitrant under anaerobic digestion thereby resulting in high TCS concentrations in biosolids. The objective of this study was to determine the impact of TCS on the antibiotic resistome and potential cross-protection in lab-scale anaerobic digesters using shotgun metagenomics. It was hypothesized that metagenomics would reveal selection for antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) not previously found in pure culture studies or mixed-culture studies using targeted qPCR. In this study, four different levels of TCS were continuously fed to triplicate lab-scale anaerobic digesters to assess the effect of TCS levels on the antibiotic resistance gene profiles (resistome). Blasting metagenomic reads against antibiotic/metal resistance gene database (BacMet) revealed that ARG diversity and abundance changed along the TCS concentration gradient. While loss of bacterial diversity and digester function were observed in the digester treated with the highest TCS concentration, FabV, which is a known TCS resistance gene, increased in this extremely high TCS environment. The abundance of several other known ARG or metal resistance genes (MRGs), including corA and arsB, also increased as the concentrations of TCS increased. Analysis of other functional genes using SEED database revealed the increase of potentially key genes for resistance including different types of transporters and transposons. These results indicate that antimicrobials can alter the abundance of multiple resistance genes in anaerobic digesters even when function (i.e. methane production) is maintained. This study also suggests that enriched ARGs could be released into environments with biosolids land application.

Spatial Distribution and Diverse Metabolic Functions of Lignocellulose-Degrading Uncultured Bacteria as Revealed by Genome-Centric Metagenomics.The mechanisms by which specific anaerobic microorganisms remain firmly attached to lignocellulosic material, allowing them to efficiently decompose organic matter, have yet to be elucidated. To circumvent this issue, microbiomes collected from anaerobic digesters treating pig manure and meadow grass were fractionated to separate the planktonic microbes from those adhered to lignocellulosic substrate. Assembly of shotgun reads, followed by a binning process, recovered 151 population genomes, 80 out of which were completely new and were not previously deposited in any database. Genome coverage allowed the identification of microbial spatial distribution in the engineered ecosystem. Moreover, a composite bioinformatic analysis using multiple databases for functional annotation revealed that uncultured members of the  and  follow diverse metabolic strategies for polysaccharide degradation. The structure of cellulosome in  species can differ depending on the number and functional roles of carbohydrate-binding modules. In contrast, members of the  are able to adhere to and degrade lignocellulose due to the presence of multiple carbohydrate-binding family 6 modules in beta-xylosidase and endoglucanase proteins or S-layer homology modules in unknown proteins. This study combines the concept of variability in spatial distribution with genome-centric metagenomics, allowing a functional and taxonomical exploration of the biogas microbiome. This work contributes new knowledge about lignocellulose degradation in engineered ecosystems. Specifically, the combination of the spatial distribution of uncultured microbes with genome-centric metagenomics provides novel insights into the metabolic properties of planktonic and firmly attached to plant biomass bacteria. Moreover, the knowledge obtained in this study enabled us to understand the diverse metabolic strategies for polysaccharide degradation in different species of  and  Even though structural elements of cellulosome were restricted to  species, our study identified a putative mechanism in  species for biomass decomposition, which is based on a gene cluster responsible for cellulose degradation, disaccharide cleavage to glucose, and transport to cytoplasm.

Aerobic deterioration of corn stalk silage and its effect on methane production and microbial community dynamics in anaerobic digestion.Ensilage is a commonly used method of preserving energy crops for biogas production. However, aerobic deterioration of silage is an inevitable problem. This study investigated the effect of aerobic deterioration on methane production and microbial community dynamics through anaerobic digestion (AD) of maize stalk silage, following 9days air exposure of silage. After air exposure, hydrolytic activity and methanogenic archaea amount in AD were reduced, decreasing the specific methane yield (SMY); whereas lignocellulose decomposition during exposure improved the degradability of silage in AD and enhanced SMY, partially compensating the dry matter (DM) loss. 29.3% of the DM and 40.7% of methane yield were lost following 0-9days exposure. Metagenomic analysis showed a shift from Clostridia to Bacteroidia and Anaerolineae in AD after silage deterioration; Methanosaetaceae was the dominant methanogenic archaea.

Hydrogen-Fueled Microbial Pathways in Biogas Upgrading Systems Revealed by Genome-Centric Metagenomics.Biogas upgrading via carbon dioxide hydrogenation is an emerging technology for electrofuel production. The biomethanation efficiency is strongly dependent on a balanced microbial consortium, whose high- resolution characterization along with their functional potential and interactions are pivotal for process optimization. The present work is the first genome-centric metagenomic study on mesophilic and thermophilic biogas upgrading reactors aiming to define the metabolic profile of more than 200 uncultivated microbes involved in hydrogen assisted methanogenesis. The outcomes from predictive functional analyses were correlated with microbial abundance variations to clarify the effect of process parameters on the community. The operational temperature significantly influenced the microbial richness of the reactors, while the H addition distinctively alternated the abundance of the taxa. Two different  species (one mesophilic and one thermophilic) were identified as the main responsible ones for methane metabolism. Finally, it was demonstrated that the addition of H exerted a selective pressure on the concerted or syntrophic interactions of specific microbes functionally related to carbon fixation, propionate and butanoate metabolisms. Novel bacteria were identified as candidate syntrophic acetate oxidizers (e.g.,  sp. DTU063), while the addition of H favored the proliferation of potential homoacetogens (e.g.,  sp. DTU183). Population genomes encoding genes of Wood-Ljungdahl pathway were mainly thermophilic, while propionate degraders were mostly identified at mesophilic conditions. Finally, putative syntrophic interactions were identified between microbes that have either versatile metabolic abilities or are obligate/facultative syntrophs.

Novel prosthecate bacteria from the candidate phylum Acetothermia.Members of the candidate phylum Acetothermia are globally distributed and detected in various habitats. However, little is known about their physiology and ecological importance. In this study, an operational taxonomic unit belonging to Acetothermia was detected at high abundance in four full-scale anaerobic digesters by 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. The first closed genome from this phylum was obtained by differential coverage binning of metagenomes and scaffolding with long nanopore reads. Genome annotation and metabolic reconstruction suggested an anaerobic chemoheterotrophic lifestyle in which the bacterium obtains energy and carbon via fermentation of peptides, amino acids, and simple sugars to acetate, formate, and hydrogen. The morphology was unusual and composed of a central rod-shaped cell with bipolar prosthecae as revealed by fluorescence in situ hybridization combined with confocal laser scanning microscopy, Raman microspectroscopy, and atomic force microscopy. We hypothesize that these prosthecae allow for increased nutrient uptake by greatly expanding the cell surface area, providing a competitive advantage under nutrient-limited conditions.

Smokeless tobacco impacts oral microbiota in a Syrian Golden hamster cheek pouch carcinogenesis model.The use of smokeless tobacco products (STPs) can cause many serious health problems. The oral microbiota plays important roles in oral and systemic health, and the disruption in the oral microbial population is linked to periodontal disease and other health problems. To assess the impact of smokeless tobacco on oral microbiota in vivo, high-throughput sequencing was used to examine the oral microbiota present in Syrian Golden hamster cheek pouches. Sixteen hamsters were divided into four groups and treated with the STP Grizzly snuff (0, 2.5, 25, or 250 mg) twice daily for 4 weeks. After 0, 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks of treatment, bacterial genomic DNA was extracted from oral swabs sampled from the cheek pouches of the hamsters. The oral bacterial communities present in different hamster groups were characterized by sequencing the hypervariable regions V1-V2 and V4 of 16S rRNA using the Illumina MiSeq platform. Fifteen phyla, 27 classes, 59 orders, 123 families, and 250 genera were identified from 4,962,673 sequence reads from the cheek pouch samples. The bacterial diversity and taxonomic abundances for the different treatment groups were compared to the non-treated hamsters. Bacterial diversity was significantly decreased after 4 weeks of exposure to 2.5 mg, and significantly increased by exposure to 250 mg STP. Treatment with 250 mg STP significantly increased Firmicutes, transiently increased Cyanobacteria and TM7, and decreased Bacteroidetes and Fusobacteria compared to the control group. At the genus level, 4 weeks of administration of 250 mg STP significantly increased Granulicatella, Streptococcus, Oribacterium, Anaerococcus, Acidaminococcus, Actinomyces, Eubacterium, Negativicoccus, and Staphylococcus, and decreased Bacteroides, Buleidia, Dialister, and Leptotrichia, and transiently decreased Arcanobacterium compared to the control group. For the first time, an animal model was used for evaluating the effects of STP on oral microbiota by metagenomic sequencing. Our results provide a view of the shift of the oral microbiota in response to STP exposure in Syrian Golden hamster. Our findings indicate that the use of smokeless tobacco significantly disrupts the oral microbiota.

Ethanolamine enhances intestinal functions by altering gut microbiome and mucosal anti-stress capacity in weaned rats.Ethanolamine (Etn) contained in milk is the base constituent of phosphatidylethanolamine and is required for the proliferation of intestinal epithelial cells and bacteria, which is important for maintenance of the gut microbiome and intestinal development. The present study investigated the effect of Etn on intestinal function and microbiome using 21-d-old Sprague-Dawley rats treated with 0, 250, 500 and 1000 μm Etn in drinking water for 2 weeks immediately after weaning. Growth performance, intestinal morphology, antioxidant capacity and mucosal immunity, as well as gut microbiota community composition, were evaluated. Metagenomic prediction and metabolic phenotype analysis based on 16S RNA sequencing were also carried out to assess changes in metabolic functions. We found that weaned rats administered 500 μm Etn enhanced mucosal antioxidant capacity, as evidenced by higher superoxide dismutase and glutathione peroxidase levels in the jejunum (P<0·05) compared with those in the control group. Predominant microbes including Bacteroidetes, Proteobacteria, Elusimicrobia and Tenericutes were altered by different levels of Etn compared with the control group. An Etn concentration of 500 µm shifted colonic microbial metabolic functions that are in favour of lipid- and sugar-related metabolism and biosynthesis. Etn also altered the metabolic phenotypes such as anaerobic microbial counts, and oxidative stress tolerance at over 250 µm. This is the first report for a role of Etn in modifying gut microbiota and intestinal functions. Our findings highlighted the important role of Etn in shaping gut microbial community and promotes intestinal functions, which may provide a better insight of breast-feeding to infant's gut health.

Bioreactor microbial ecosystems with differentiated methanogenic phenol biodegradation and competitive metabolic pathways unraveled with genome-resolved metagenomics.Methanogenic biodegradation of aromatic compounds depends on syntrophic metabolism. However, metabolic enzymes and pathways of uncultured microorganisms and their ecological interactions with methanogenic consortia are unknown because of their resistance to isolation and limited genomic information.
Genome-resolved metagenomics approaches were used to reconstruct and dissect 23 prokaryotic genomes from 37 and 20 °C methanogenic phenol-degrading reactors. Comparative genomic evidence suggests that temperature difference leads to the colonization of two distinct cooperative sub-communities that can respire sulfate/sulfite/sulfur or nitrate/nitrite compounds and compete for uptake of methanogenic substrates (e.g., acetate and hydrogen). This competition may differentiate methanogenesis. The uncultured - G1, whose close relatives have broad ecological niches including the deep-sea vents, aquifers, sediment, limestone caves, spring, and anaerobic digesters, is implicated as a -like facultative anaerobic diazotroph with metabolic versatility and remarkable environmental adaptability. We provide first genomic evidence for butyrate, alcohol, and carbohydrate utilization by a  T78 clade bacterium, and phenol carboxylation and assimilatory sulfite reduction in a  bacterium.
Genome-resolved metagenomics enriches our view on the differentiation of microbial community composition, metabolic pathways, and ecological interactions in temperature-differentiated methanogenic phenol-degrading bioreactors. These findings suggest optimization strategies for methanogenesis on phenol, such as temperature control, protection from light, feed desulfurization, and hydrogen sulfide removal from bioreactors. Moreover, decoding genome-borne properties (e.g., antibiotic, arsenic, and heavy metal resistance) of uncultured bacteria help to bring up alternative schemes to isolate them.

Metagenome, metatranscriptome, and metaproteome approaches unraveled compositions and functional relationships of microbial communities residing in biogas plants.The production of biogas by anaerobic digestion (AD) of agricultural residues, organic wastes, animal excrements, municipal sludge, and energy crops has a firm place in sustainable energy production and bio-economy strategies. Focusing on the microbial community involved in biomass conversion offers the opportunity to control and engineer the biogas process with the objective to optimize its efficiency. Taxonomic profiling of biogas producing communities by means of high-throughput 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing provided high-resolution insights into bacterial and archaeal structures of AD assemblages and their linkages to fed substrates and process parameters. Commonly, the bacterial phyla Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes appeared to dominate biogas communities in varying abundances depending on the apparent process conditions. Regarding the community of methanogenic Archaea, their diversity was mainly affected by the nature and composition of the substrates, availability of nutrients and ammonium/ammonia contents, but not by the temperature. It also appeared that a high proportion of 16S rRNA sequences can only be classified on higher taxonomic ranks indicating that many community members and their participation in AD within functional networks are still unknown. Although cultivation-based approaches to isolate microorganisms from biogas fermentation samples yielded hundreds of novel species and strains, this approach intrinsically is limited to the cultivable fraction of the community. To obtain genome sequence information of non-cultivable biogas community members, metagenome sequencing including assembly and binning strategies was highly valuable. Corresponding research has led to the compilation of hundreds of metagenome-assembled genomes (MAGs) frequently representing novel taxa whose metabolism and lifestyle could be reconstructed based on nucleotide sequence information. In contrast to metagenome analyses revealing the genetic potential of microbial communities, metatranscriptome sequencing provided insights into the metabolically active community. Taking advantage of genome sequence information, transcriptional activities were evaluated considering the microorganism's genetic background. Metaproteome studies uncovered enzyme profiles expressed by biogas community members. Enzymes involved in cellulose and hemicellulose decomposition and utilization of other complex biopolymers were identified. Future studies on biogas functional microbial networks will increasingly involve integrated multi-omics analyses evaluating metagenome, transcriptome, proteome, and metabolome datasets.

Genome-centric metatranscriptomes and ecological roles of the active microbial populations during cellulosic biomass anaerobic digestion.Although anaerobic digestion for biogas production is used worldwide in treatment processes to recover energy from carbon-rich waste such as cellulosic biomass, the activities and interactions among the microbial populations that perform anaerobic digestion deserve further investigations, especially at the population genome level. To understand the cellulosic biomass-degrading potentials in two full-scale digesters, this study examined five methanogenic enrichment cultures derived from the digesters that anaerobically digested cellulose or xylan for more than 2 years under 35 or 55 °C conditions.
Metagenomics and metatranscriptomics were used to capture the active microbial populations in each enrichment culture and reconstruct their meta-metabolic network and ecological roles. 107 population genomes were reconstructed from the five enrichment cultures using a differential coverage binning approach, of which only a subset was highly transcribed in the metatranscriptomes. Phylogenetic and functional convergence of communities by enrichment condition and phase of fermentation was observed for the highly transcribed populations in the metatranscriptomes. In the 35 °C cultures grown on cellulose, -related and -related bacteria were identified as major hydrolyzers and primary fermenters in the early growth phase, while -related bacteria were major secondary fermenters and potential fatty acid scavengers in the late growth phase. While the meta-metabolism and trophic roles of the cultures were similar, the bacterial populations performing each function were distinct between the enrichment conditions.
Overall, a population genome-centric view of the meta-metabolism and functional roles of key active players in anaerobic digestion of cellulosic biomass was obtained. This study represents a major step forward towards understanding the microbial functions and interactions at population genome level during the microbial conversion of lignocellulosic biomass to methane. The knowledge of this study can facilitate development of potential biomarkers and rational design of the microbiome in anaerobic digesters.

Metagenomic binning reveals the functional roles of core abundant microorganisms in twelve full-scale biogas plants.The aim of this work was to elucidate the microbial ecology in twelve mesophilic and thermophilic full-scale biogas plants using a genome-centric metagenomic approach. In this study both biogas plants treating manure and those treating sludge from waste water treatment plants were considered. The identification of 132 Metagenome-Assembled Genomes (MAGs) and analysis of their abundance profile in different samples allowed the identification of the most abundant core members of the anaerobic digestion microbiome. Canonical correspondence analysis was used to determine the influence of biotic and environmental factors on MAGs abundance and to investigate the methanogenic performance of the biogas plants. Prediction of the functional properties of MAGs was obtained analyzing their KEGG pathways and their carbohydrate active domains. Network analysis allowed investigation of species-species associations and shed light on syntrophic interactions between members belonging to the anaerobic digestion dark matter (phylum Fermentibacteria). By stratifying and comparing different levels of information, it was predicted that some MAGs have a crucial role in the manure-supplemented thermophilic biogas plants and it was highlighted the importance of the glycine cleavage system in complementing the "truncated" Wood-Ljungdahl pathway.

Microbial community composition and methanogens' biodiversity during a temperature shift in a methane fermentation chamber.More information on the connection between anaerobic digestion (AD) parameters and composition of the microbial community involved in the AD process is required to gain a better understanding of how a bioreactor functions. The aim of this study was to analyse the composition of microbial communities and the dynamics of methanogens' biodiversity changes during the shift from mesophilic (38°C) to thermophilic (55°C) conditions during biogas production. The total microbial composition was examined via the metagenomic approach based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing, whereas the methanogen communities were analysed using PCR-DGGE (Polymerase Chain Reaction-Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis) of . Even though the temperature is one of the crucial parameters affecting microorganisms involved in the AD process, the results presented here revealed that there were no statistically significant differences in bacterial community composition between the mesophilic and thermophilic phases of the process. The most abundant phyla were found to be , ,  and . However, the methanogens' community genotypic structure as examined by the PCR-DGGE method changed under thermophilic conditions. The temperature had the strongest impact on the archaeal methanogens in the fermentation chamber directly after implementing the temperature shift. A relatively higher biogas yield and average content of CH in the produced biogas were observed under thermophilic conditions.

The active microbial community more accurately reflects the anaerobic digestion process: 16S rRNA (gene) sequencing as a predictive tool.Amplicon sequencing methods targeting the 16S rRNA gene have been used extensively to investigate microbial community composition and dynamics in anaerobic digestion. These methods successfully characterize amplicons but do not distinguish micro-organisms that are actually responsible for the process. In this research, the archaeal and bacterial community of 48 full-scale anaerobic digestion plants were evaluated on DNA (total community) and RNA (active community) level via 16S rRNA (gene) amplicon sequencing.
A significantly higher diversity on DNA compared with the RNA level was observed for archaea, but not for bacteria. Beta diversity analysis showed a significant difference in community composition between the DNA and RNA of both bacteria and archaea. This related with 25.5 and 42.3% of total OTUs for bacteria and archaea, respectively, that showed a significant difference in their DNA and RNA profiles. Similar operational parameters affected the bacterial and archaeal community, yet the differentiating effect between DNA and RNA was much stronger for archaea. Co-occurrence networks and functional prediction profiling confirmed the clear differentiation between DNA and RNA profiles.
In conclusion, a clear difference in active (RNA) and total (DNA) community profiles was observed, implying the need for a combined approach to estimate community stability in anaerobic digestion.

Metagenomic insight into methanogenic reactors promoting direct interspecies electron transfer via granular activated carbon.To provide insight into direct interspecies electron transfer via granular activated carbon (GAC), the effect of GAC supplementation on anaerobic digestion was evaluated. Compared to control samples, the GAC supplementation increased the total amount of methane production and its production rate by 31% and 72%, respectively. 16S rDNA sequencing analysis revealed a shift in the archaeal community composition; the Methanosarcina proportion decreased 17%, while the Methanosaeta proportion increased 5.6%. Metagenomic analyses based on shotgun sequencing demonstrated that the abundance of pilA and omcS genes belonging to Geobacter species decreased 69.4% and 29.4%, respectively. Furthermore, the analyses suggested a carbon dioxide reduction pathway rather than an acetate decarboxylation pathway for methane formation. Taken together, these results suggest that GAC improved methane production performance by shifting the microbial community and altering functional genes associated with direct interspecies electron transfer via conductive materials.

Fate of antibiotic and metal resistance genes during two-phase anaerobic digestion of residue sludge revealed by metagenomic approach.The prevalence and persistence of antibiotic resistance genes in wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) is of growing interest, and residual sludge is among the main sources for the release of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs). Moreover, heavy metals concentrated in dense microbial communities of sludge could potentially favor co-selection of ARGs and metal resistance genes (MRGs). Residual sludge treatment is needed to limit the spread of resistance from WWTPs into the environment. This study aimed to explore the fate of ARGs and MRGs during thermophilic two-phase (acidogenic/methanogenic phase) anaerobic digestion by metagenomic analysis. The occurrence and abundance of mobile genetic elements were also determined based on the SEED database. Among the 27 major ARG subtypes detected in feed sludge, large reductions (> 50%) in 6 ARG subtypes were achieved by acidogenic phase (AP), while 63.0% of the ARG subtypes proliferated in the following methanogenic phase (MP). In contrast, a 2.8-fold increase in total MRG abundance was found in AP, while the total abundance during MP decreased to the same order of magnitude as in feed sludge. The distinct dynamics of ARGs and MRGs during the two-phase anaerobic digestion are noteworthy, and more specific treatments are required to limit their proliferation in the environment.

New insights into enhanced anaerobic degradation of Fischer-Tropsch wastewater with the assistance of magnetite.In this study, magnetite (FeO), as the typical conductive material, was supplemented in anaerobic sequential batch reactor (ASBR) with the attempt to enhance pollutants removal and methane production during Fischer-Tropsch wastewater treatment. The results showed that COD removal efficiency and cumulative methane production with the addition of optimum magnetite dosage (0.4 g) were as high as 84.3 ± 2.0% and 7.46 ± 0.24 L, which were higher than other test groups (0, 0.2 and 0.6 g). Furthermore, the combination of high-throughput 16S rRNA gene pyrosequencing and metagenomic analysis in this study further confirmed that the Geobacter and Methanosaeta species were specially enriched in bacterial and archaeal community at the optimum magnetite dosage, suggesting that magnetite-mediated direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) between Geobacter and Methanosaeta species was likely a crucial reason to promote syntrophic metabolism of propionic acid and butyric acid, and further enhance final methanogenesis.

Microbial effects of part-stream low-frequency ultrasonic pretreatment on sludge anaerobic digestion as revealed by high-throughput sequencing-based metagenomics and metatranscriptomics.Part-stream low-frequency ultrasound (LFUS) was one of the common practices for sludge disintegration in full-scale anaerobic digestion (AD) facilities. However, the effectiveness of part-stream LFUS treatment and its effect on AD microbiome have not been fully elucidated.
Here we testified the effectiveness of part-stream LFUS pretreatment by treating only a fraction of feed sludge (23% and 33% total solid of the feed sludge) with 20 Hz LFUS for 70 s. State-of-the-art metagenomic and metatranscriptomic analysis was used to investigate the microbial process underpinning the enhanced AD performance by part-stream LFUS pretreatment.
By pretreating 33% total solid of the feed sludge, methane yield was increased by 36.5%, while the volatile solid reduction ratio remained unchanged. RNA-seq of the microbiome at stable stage showed that the continuous dosage of easy-degradable LFUS-pretreated feed sludge had gradually altered the microbial community by selecting  hydrolyzer with greater metabolic capability to hydrolyze cellulosic biomass without substrate attachment. Meanwhile,  with excellent cell mobility for nutrient capturing was highly active within the community. Foremost proportion of the methanogenesis was contributed by the dominant  via carbon dioxide reduction. More interestingly, a perceivable proportion of the reverse electron flow of the community was input from  species other than syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria. In addition, metagenomic binning retrieved several interesting novel metagenomic-assembled genomes (MAGs): MAG-bin6 of  showed exceptional transcriptional activities towards protein degradation and MAG-bin11 of Candidatus  with active cellulolytic GH74 gene detected.
In summary, despite the unchanged sludge digestibility, the applied part-stream LFUS pretreatment strategy was robust in adjusting the microbial pathways towards more effective substrate conversion enabled by free-living hydrolyser and beta-oxidation-capable methanogens.

Chronic impacts of oxytetracycline on mesophilic anaerobic digestion of excess sludge: Inhibition of hydrolytic acidification and enrichment of antibiotic resistome.We evaluated the chronic impact of oxytetracycline (OTC) on performance and antibiotic resistance development during the mesophilic anaerobic digestion (AD) of antibiotic-containing biomass. Mesophilic AD was conducted in a completely stirred tank reactor by constantly feeding municipal excess sludge spiked with increasing concentrations of OTC (0-1000 mg L) under a solid retention time of 20 days over a period of 265 days. Results showed that methane generation of mesophilic AD was inhibited when the OTC concentration in digested sludge was increased to around 18,000 mg kg (OTC dose, 1000 mg L), due to the inhibition of fermenting and acidogenic bacteria. Metagenomic sequencing and high-throughput quantitative PCR analysis demonstrated that tetracycline resistance genes were the most dominant type (38.47-43.76%) in the resistome, with tetG, tetX, tetM, tetR, tetQ, tetO, and tetL as the dominant resistant subtypes throughout the whole experimental period. The relative abundance of these tet genes increased from 2.10 × 10 before spiking OTC (OTC concentration in digested sludge, 8.97 mg kg) to 2.83 × 10 (p < 0.05) after spiking OTC at a dose of 40 mg L (OTC concentration in digested sludge, 528.52 mg kg). Furthermore, mobile genetic elements, including integrons, transposons, and plasmids, were also enriched with the increase in OTC dose. Based on partial canonical correspondence analysis, the contributions of horizontal (mobile element alteration) and vertical (bacterial community shift) gene transfer to antibiotic resistome variation were 29.35% and 21.51%, respectively. Thus, considering the inhibition of hydrolytic acidification and enrichment of antibiotic resistome, mesophilic AD is not suggested to directly treat the biomass containing OTC concentration higher than 200 mg L.

Performance and genome-centric metagenomics of thermophilic single and two-stage anaerobic digesters treating cheese wastes.The present research is the first comprehensive study regarding the thermophilic anaerobic degradation of cheese wastewater, which combines the evaluation of different reactor configurations (i.e. single and two-stage continuous stirred tank reactors) on the process efficiency and the in-depth characterization of the microbial community structure using genome-centric metagenomics. Both reactor configurations showed acidification problems under the tested organic loading rates (OLRs) of 3.6 and 2.4 g COD/L-reactor day and the hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 15 days. However, the two-stage design reached a methane yield equal to 95% of the theoretical value, in contrast with the single stage configuration, which reached a maximum of 33% of the theoretical methane yield. The metagenomic analysis identified 22 new population genomes and revealed that the microbial compositions between the two configurations were remarkably different, demonstrating a higher methanogenic biodiversity in the two-stage configuration. In fact, the acidogenic reactor of the serial configuration was almost solely composed by the lactose degrader Bifidobacterium crudilactis UC0001. The predictive functional analyses of the main population genomes highlighted specific metabolic pathways responsible for the AD process and the mechanisms of main intermediates production. Particularly, the acetate accumulation experienced by the single stage configuration was mainly correlated to the low abundant syntrophic acetate oxidizer Tepidanaerobacter acetatoxydans UC0018 and to the absence of aceticlastic methanogens.

Antibiotic resistome in landfill leachate from different cities of China deciphered by metagenomic analysis.High throughput sequencing-based metagenomic analysis and network analysis were applied to investigate the broad-spectrum profiles of ARGs in landfill leachate from 12 cities in China. In total, 526 ARG subtypes belonging to 21 ARG types were detected with abundances ranging from 1.1 × 10 to 2.09 × 10 copy of ARG/copy of 16S rRNA gene. 68 ARG subtypes that accounted for 73.4%-93.4% of the total ARG abundances were shared by all leachate samples. The four most abundant ARGs, sul1, sul2, aadA and bacA can be served as ARG indicators to quantitatively predict the total abundances by linear functions (r = 0.577-0.819, P < 0.001). No distinct regional distribution pattern of the ARGs was observed among different cities in China, while the ARG compositions of the leachate were clearly distinct from those of other environmental sample types. Nearly 90% ARG subtypes in the anaerobic digestion sludge from sewage treatment plants (STPADS) were shared by the leachate and the abundances of leachate and STPADS ARGs generalists accounted for 84.5% and 87.7% of total abundances in these two types of anaerobic samples, respectively. Furthermore, Procrustes analysis suggested that microbial community composition might be the determining factor of ARG compositions in landfill leachate. ARGs within the same type or among the different types showed higher incidences of non-random co-occurrence and 17 genera might be potential hosts of multiple ARGs. This study highlighted that landfill leachate is an important reservoir of various ARGs and provided a useful reference for the surveillance and risk management of ARGs in landfill environments.

Anaerobic 4-hydroxyproline utilization: Discovery of a new glycyl radical enzyme in the human gut microbiome uncovers a widespread microbial metabolic activity.The discovery of enzymes responsible for previously unappreciated microbial metabolic pathways furthers our understanding of host-microbe and microbe-microbe interactions. We recently identified and characterized a new gut microbial glycyl radical enzyme (GRE) responsible for anaerobic metabolism of trans-4-hydroxy-l-proline (Hyp). Hyp dehydratase (HypD) catalyzes the removal of water from Hyp to generate Δ-pyrroline-5-carboxylate (P5C). This enzyme is encoded in the genomes of a diverse set of gut anaerobes and is prevalent and abundant in healthy human stool metagenomes. Here, we discuss the roles HypD may play in different microbial metabolic pathways as well as the potential implications of this activity for colonization resistance and pathogenesis within the human gut. Finally, we present evidence of anaerobic Hyp metabolism in sediments through enrichment culturing of Hyp-degrading bacteria, highlighting the wide distribution of this pathway in anoxic environments beyond the human gut.

Thermophilic Alkaline Fermentation Followed by Mesophilic Anaerobic Digestion for Efficient Hydrogen and Methane Production from Waste-Activated Sludge: Dynamics of Bacterial Pathogens as Revealed by the Combination of Metagenomic and Quantitative PCR Analyses.Thermophilic alkaline fermentation followed by mesophilic anaerobic digestion (TM) for hydrogen and methane production from waste-activated sludge (WAS) was investigated. The TM process was also compared to a process with mesophilic alkaline fermentation followed by a mesophilic anaerobic digestion (MM) and one-stage mesophilic anaerobic digestion (M) process. The results showed that both hydrogen yield (74.5 ml H/g volatile solids [VS]) and methane yield (150.7 ml CH/g VS) in the TM process were higher than those (6.7 ml H/g VS and 127.8 ml CH/g VS, respectively) in the MM process. The lowest methane yield (101.2 ml CH/g VS) was obtained with the M process. Taxonomic results obtained from metagenomic analysis showed that different microbial community compositions were established in the hydrogen reactors of the TM and MM processes, which also significantly changed the microbial community compositions in the following methane reactors compared to that with the M process. The dynamics of bacterial pathogens were also evaluated. For the TM process, the reduced diversity and total abundance of bacterial pathogens in WAS were observed in the hydrogen reactor and were further reduced in the methane reactor, as revealed by metagenomic analysis. The results also showed not all bacterial pathogens were reduced in the reactors. For example,  was enriched in the hydrogen reactor, which was also confirmed by quantitative PCR (qPCR) analysis. The study further showed that qPCR was more sensitive for detecting bacterial pathogens than metagenomic analysis. Although there were some differences in the relative abundances of bacterial pathogens calculated by metagenomic and qPCR approaches, both approaches demonstrated that the TM process was more efficient for the removal of bacterial pathogens than the MM and M processes. This study developed an efficient process for bioenergy (H and CH) production from WAS and elucidates the dynamics of bacterial pathogens in the process, which is important for the utilization and safe application of WAS. The study also made an attempt to combine metagenomic and qPCR analyses to reveal the dynamics of bacterial pathogens in anaerobic processes, which could overcome the limitations of each method and provide new insights regarding bacterial pathogens in environmental samples.

Hydrogen-Rich Saline Regulates Intestinal Barrier Dysfunction, Dysbiosis, and Bacterial Translocation in a Murine Model of Sepsis.Bacterial translocation is a major cause of multiple organ dysfunction syndrome in critical illness, and its management is an important therapeutic strategy. In this study, we focused on the key factors responsible for bacterial translocation including the intestinal microbiome and investigated the impact of molecular hydrogen therapy as a countermeasure against bacterial translocation in a murine model of sepsis. The experimental protocols were divided into the sham, saline treatment (control), and hydrogen treatment (H2) groups. In the H2 group, 15 mL/kg of hydrogen-rich saline (7 ppm) was gavaged daily for 7 days following cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). In the control group, normal saline was gavaged in the same way. In the results, the 7-day survival rate was significantly improved in the H2 group versus the control group (69% vs. 31%, P < 0.05). The incidence of bacterial translocation at 24 h after CLP as assessed by cultivation of mesenteric lymph nodes and blood was significantly decreased in the H2 group versus the control group. Administration of hydrogen-rich saline also prevented the expansion of facultative anaerobic Enterobacteriaceae and ameliorated intestinal hyperpermeability at 24 h after CLP. Intestinal tissue levels of inflammatory mediators such as inducible nitric oxide synthases, tumor necrosis factor α, interleukin (IL)-1β, IL-6, and oxidative stress marker malondialdehyde at 6 h after CLP were down-regulated in the H2 group. These results suggest luminal administration of hydrogen-rich saline, which prevents intestinal dysbiosis, hyperpermeability, and bacterial translocation, could potentially be a new therapeutic strategy in critical illness.

Effect of ammonia on the active microbiome and metagenome from stable full-scale digesters.Four full-scale anaerobic digesters with a long history of stable operation were characterized in terms of active microbiome and metagenome. Isotopic fractionation of biogas demonstrated that acetotrophy was rather prevalent in reactors operated at <3 gTAN L while hydrogenotrophy was predominant at >6 gTAN L, suggesting that syntrophic acetate oxidizing bacteria (SAOB) played a significant role in the latter. These results were generally coherent with the observed active bacterial and archaeal communities but no known SAOB were observed. Metagenome descriptions yielded 73 assembled population genomes, of which only 7 could be assigned at the species level. Gene annotation and association to relevant metabolic pathways indicated that the phyla Chloroflexi and Bacteroidales might encompass new, currently undescribed, SAOB/formate producing species that would metabolize acetate via the glycine cleavage system. The predominant hydrogenotrophic counterpart at a high ammonia content belonged to the genus Methanoculleus, which could also grow on acetate to a certain extent.

Archaeal and Bacterial Community Structure in an Anaerobic Digestion Reactor (Lagoon Type) Used for Biogas Production at a Pig Farm.Biogas production from animal waste is an economically viable way to reduce environmental pollution and produce valuable products, i.e., methane and a nutrient-rich organic waste product. An anaerobic digestion reactor for biogas production from pig waste was sampled at the entrance, middle (digestion chamber), and exit of a digester, while the bacterial and archaeal community structure was studied by 16S rRNA gene metagenomics. The number of bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTU)-97% was 3-7 times larger than that of archaeal ones. Bacteria and Archaea found in feces of animals (e.g., Clostridiaceae, Lachnospiraceae, Ruminococcaceae, Methanosarcina, Methanolobus, Methanosaeta, and Methanospirillum) dominated the entrance of the digester. The digestion chamber was dominated by anaerobic sugar-fermenting OP9 bacteria and the syntrophic bacteria Candidatus Cloacamonas (Waste Water of Evry 1; WWE1). The methanogens dominant in the digestion chamber were the acetoclastic Methanosaeta and the hydrogenothrophic Methanoculleus and Methanospirillum. Similar bacterial and archaeal groups that dominated in the middle of the digestion chamber were found in the waste that left the digester. Predicted functions associated with degradation of xenobiotic compounds were significantly different between the sampling locations. The microbial community found in an anaerobic digestion reactor loaded with pig manure contained microorganisms with biochemical capacities related to the 4 phases of methane production.

Feeding strategy shapes gut metagenomic enrichment and functional specialization in captive lemurs.Many studies have demonstrated the effects of host diet on gut microbial membership, metagenomics, and fermentation individually; but few have attempted to interpret the relationship among these biological phenomena with respect to host features (e.g. gut morphology). We quantitatively compare the fecal microbial communities, metabolic pathways, and fermentation products associated with the nutritional intake of frugivorous (fruit-eating) and folivorous (leaf-eating) lemurs. Our results provide a uniquely multidimensional and comparative perspective on the adaptive dynamics between host and microbiome. Shotgun metagenomic sequencing revealed significant differential taxonomic and metabolic pathway enrichment, tailored to digest and detoxify different diets. Frugivorous metagenomes feature pathways to degrade simple carbohydrates and host-derived glycosaminoglycans, while folivorous metagenomes are equipped to break down phytic acid and other phytochemical compounds in an anaerobic environment. We used nuclear magnetic resonance based metabolic profiling of fecal samples to link metabolic pathways to fermentation products, confirming that the dissimilar substrates provided in each diet select for specific microbial functions. Fecal samples from frugivorous lemurs contained significantly different profiles of short chain fatty acids, alcohol fermentation products, amino acids, glucose, and glycerol compared to folivorous lemurs. We present the relationships between these datasets as an integrated visual framework, which we refer to as microbial geometry. We use microbial geometry to compare empirical gut microbial profiles across different feeding strategies, and suggest additional utility as a tool for hypothesis-generation.

Characterization of cellulolytic microbial consortium enriched on Napier grass using metagenomic approaches.Energy grass is a promising substrate for production of biogas by anaerobic digestion. However, the conversion efficiency is limited by the enzymatically recalcitrant nature of cellulosic wastes. In this study, an active, structurally stable mesophilic lignocellulolytic degrading microbial consortium (Np-LMC) was constructed from forest compost soil microbiota by successive subcultivation on Napier grass under facultative anoxic conditions. According to tagged 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, increasing abundance of facultative Proteobacteria was found in the middle of batch cycle which was then subsequently replaced by the cellulose degraders Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes along with decreasing CMCase, xylanase, and β-glucanase activity profiles in the supernatant after 5 days of incubation. Anaerobic/facultative bacteria Dysgonomonas and Sedimentibacter and aerobic bacteria Comamonas were the major genera found in Np-LMC. The consortium was active on degradation of the native and delignified grass. Direct shotgun sequencing of the consortium metagenome revealed relatively high abundance of genes encoding for various lignocellulose degrading enzymes in 23 glycosyl hydrolase (GH) families compared to previously reported cellulolytic microbial communities in mammalian digestive tracts. Enzymes attacking cellulose and hemicellulose were dominated by GH2, 3, 5, 9, 10, 26, 28 and 43 in addition to a variety of carbohydrate esterases (CE) and auxiliary activities (AA), reflecting adaptation of the enzyme systems to the native herbaceous substrate. The consortium identified here represents the microcosm specifically bred on energy grass, with potential for enhancing degradation of fibrous substrates in bioenergy industry.

Comparative Metagenomic Analysis of Electrogenic Microbial Communities in Differentially Inoculated Swine Wastewater-Fed Microbial Fuel Cells.Bioelectrochemical systems such as microbial fuel cells (MFCs) are promising new technologies for efficient removal of organic compounds from industrial wastewaters, including that generated from swine farming. We inoculated two pairs of laboratory-scale MFCs with sludge granules from a beer wastewater-treating anaerobic digester (IGBS) or from sludge taken from the bottom of a tank receiving swine wastewater (SS). The SS-inoculated MFC outperformed the IGBS-inoculated MFC with regard to COD and VFA removal and electricity production. Using a metagenomic approach, we describe the microbial diversity of the MFC planktonic and anodic communities derived from the different inocula. Proteobacteria (mostly Deltaproteobacteria) became the predominant phylum in both MFC anodic communities with amplification of the electrogenic genus  being the most pronounced. Eight dominant and three minor species of  were found in both MFC anodic communities. The anodic communities of the SS-inoculated MFCs had a higher proportion of  and  relative to those of the IGBS-inoculated MFCs, which were enriched with . The archaeal populations of the SS- and IGBS-inoculated MFCs were dominated by  and , respectively. Our results show a long-term influence of inoculum type on the performance and microbial community composition of swine wastewater-treating MFCs.

Genomics and prevalence of bacterial and archaeal isolates from biogas-producing microbiomes.To elucidate biogas microbial communities and processes, the application of high-throughput DNA analysis approaches is becoming increasingly important. Unfortunately, generated data can only partialy be interpreted rudimentary since databases lack reference sequences.
Novel cellulolytic, hydrolytic, and acidogenic/acetogenic  as well as methanogenic  originating from different anaerobic digestion communities were analyzed on the genomic level to assess their role in biomass decomposition and biogas production. Some of the analyzed bacterial strains were recently described as new species and even genera, namely  T3/55,  SD1D,  M2/40,  M3/6,  ING2-E5B, and  ING2-E5A. High-throughput genome sequencing of 22 anaerobic digestion isolates enabled functional genome interpretation, metabolic reconstruction, and prediction of microbial traits regarding their abilities to utilize complex bio-polymers and to perform specific fermentation pathways. To determine the prevalence of the isolates included in this study in different biogas systems, corresponding metagenome fragment mappings were done.  was found to be abundant in three mesophilic biogas plants studied and slightly less abundant in a thermophilic biogas plant, whereas  was only prominent in the thermophilic system. Moreover, several of the analyzed species were clearly detectable in the mesophilic biogas plants, but appeared to be only moderately abundant. Among the species for which genome sequence information was publicly available prior to this study, only the species , , and  are of importance for the biogas microbiomes analyzed, but did not reach the level of abundance as determined for  and .
Isolation of key anaerobic digestion microorganisms and their functional interpretation was achieved by application of elaborated cultivation techniques and subsequent genome analyses. New isolates and their genome information extend the repository covering anaerobic digestion community members.

Metatranscriptomic and metagenomic description of the bacterial nitrogen metabolism in waste water wet oxidation effluents.Anaerobic digestion is a common method for reducing the amount of sludge solids in used waters and enabling biogas production. The wet oxidation process (WOX) improves anaerobic digestion by converting carbon into methane through oxidation of organic compounds. WOX produces effluents rich in ammonia, which must be removed to maintain the activity of methanogens. Ammonia removal from WOX could be biologically operated by aerobic granules. To this end, granulation experiments were conducted in 2 bioreactors containing an activated sludge (AS). For the first time, the dynamics of the microbial community structure and the expression levels of 7 enzymes of the nitrogen metabolism in such active microbial communities were followed in regard to time by metagenomics and metatranscriptomics. It was shown that bacterial communities adapt to the wet oxidation effluent by increasing the expression level of the nitrogen metabolism, suggesting that these biological activities could be a less costly alternative for the elimination of ammonia, resulting in a reduction of the use of chemicals and energy consumption in sewage plants. This study reached a strong sequencing depth (from 4.4 to 7.6 Gb) and enlightened a yet unknown diversity of the microorganisms involved in the nitrogen pathway. Moreover, this approach revealed the abundance and expression levels of specialised enzymes involved in nitrification, denitrification, ammonification, dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA) and nitrogen fixation processes in AS.

Microbiome dynamics and adaptation of expression signatures during methane production failure and process recovery.This study aimed to uncover microbial dynamics and transcriptional adaptations during mesophilic AD of maize silage and slurry. While one digester performed under optimal conditions, the investigations also evaluated the microbiome during a temperature drop mediated process failure accompanied by acidification and how it contributed to a process recovery. Composition and pathway activities were analyzed by whole genome shotgun (WGS) and metatranscriptome sequencing, respectively. A biodiversity of 112 species was observed with noticeable shifts over process time. Although four distinct groups of microbes could be identified with a correlating versatility according to substrate and to process disturbance, also tremendous effects on gene expression were monitored especially of the archaeal methane metabolism. Particularly, the expression of acetogenotrophic methanogenesis related genes was identified to be relevant for process regeneration.

Anaerobic granular sludge for simultaneous biomethanation of synthetic wastewater and CO with focus on the identification of CO-converting microorganisms.CO is a main component of syngas, which can be produced from the gasification of organic wastes and biomass. CO can be converted to methane by anaerobic digestion (AD), however, it is still challenging due to its toxicity to microorganisms and limited knowledge about CO converting microorganisms. In the present study, anaerobic granular sludge (AGS) was used for the simultaneous biomethanation of wastewater and CO. Batch experiments showed that AGS tolerated CO partial pressure as high as 0.5 atm without affecting its ability for synthetic wastewater degradation, which had higher tolerance of CO compared to suspended sludge (less than 0.25 atm) as previously reported. Continuous experiments in upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactors showed AGS could efficiently convert synthetic wastewater and CO into methane by applying gas-recirculation. The addition of CO to UASB reactor enhanced the hydrogenotrophic CO-oxidizing pathway, resulted in the increase of extracellular polymeric substances, changed the morphology of AGS and significantly altered the microbial community compositions of AGS. The microbial species relating with CO conversion and their functions were revealed by metagenomic analysis. It showed that 23 of the 70 reconstructed genome bins (GBs), most of which were not previously characterized at genomic level, were enriched and contained genes involved in CO conversion upon CO addition. CO-converting microorganisms might be taxonomically more diverse than previously known and have multi-functions in the AD process. The reductive tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle in combination with the oxidation of the CO was probably crucial for CO utilization by the majority of the GBs in the present study.

Metagenomic insight into the microbial networks and metabolic mechanism in anaerobic digesters for food waste by incorporating activated carbon.Powdered activated carbon (AC) is commonly used as an effective additive to enhance anaerobic digestion (AD), but little is known about how the metabolic pathways resulting from adding AC change the microbial association network and enhance food waste treatment. In this work, the use of AC in an anaerobic digestion system for food waste was explored. Using bioinformatics analysis, taxonomic trees and the KEGG pathway analysis, changes in microbial network and biometabolic pathways were tracked. The overall effect of these changes were used to explain and validate improved digestion performance. The results showed that AC accelerated the decomposition of edible oil in food waste, enhancing the conversion of food waste to methane with the optimized dosage of 12 g AC per reactor. Specifically, when AC was added, the proponoate metabolic pathway that converts propanoic acid to acetic acid became more prominent, as measured by 16S rRNA in the microbial community. The other two metabolic pathways, Lipid Metabolism and Methane Metabolism, were also enhanced. Bioinformatics analysis revealed that AC promoted the proliferation of syntrophic microorganisms such as Methanosaeta and Geobacter, forming a highly intensive syntrophic microbial network.

DNA-SIP based genome-centric metagenomics identifies key long-chain fatty acid-degrading populations in anaerobic digesters with different feeding frequencies.Fats, oils and greases (FOG) are energy-dense wastes that can be added to anaerobic digesters to substantially increase biomethane recovery via their conversion through long-chain fatty acids (LCFAs). However, a better understanding of the ecophysiology of syntrophic LCFA-degrading microbial communities in anaerobic digesters is needed to develop operating strategies that mitigate inhibitory LCFA accumulation from FOG. In this research, DNA stable isotope probing (SIP) was coupled with metagenomic sequencing for a genome-centric comparison of oleate (C)-degrading populations in two anaerobic codigesters operated with either a pulse feeding or continuous-feeding strategy. The pulse-fed codigester microcosms converted oleate into methane at over 20% higher rates than the continuous-fed codigester microcosms. Differential coverage binning was demonstrated for the first time to recover population genome bins (GBs) from DNA-SIP metagenomes. About 70% of the C-enriched GBs were taxonomically assigned to the Syntrophomonas genus, thus substantiating the importance of Syntrophomonas species to LCFA degradation in anaerobic digesters. Phylogenetic comparisons of C-enriched GBs showed that phylogenetically distinct Syntrophomonas GBs were unique to each codigester. Overall, these results suggest that syntrophic populations in anaerobic digesters can have different adaptive capacities, and that selection for divergent populations may be achieved by adjusting reactor operating conditions to maximize biomethane recovery.

Rapid startup of thermophilic anaerobic digester to remove tetracycline and sulfonamides resistance genes from sewage sludge.Spread of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) originating from sewage sludge is highlighted as an eminent health threat. This study established a thermophilic anaerobic digester using one-step startup strategy to quickly remove tetracycline and sulfonamides resistance genes from sewage sludge. At least 20days were saved in the startup period from mesophilic to thermophilic condition. Based on the results of 16S rDNA amplicons sequencing and predicted metagenomic method, the successful startup largely relied on the fast colonization of core thermophilic microbial population (e.g. Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria). Microbial metabolic gene pathways for substrate degradation and methane production was also increased by one-step mode. In addition, real-time quantitative PCR approach revealed that most targeted tetracycline and sulfonamides resistance genes ARGs (sulI, tetA, tetO, tetX) were substantially removed during thermophilic digestion (removal efficiency>80%). Network analysis showed that the elimination of ARGs was attributed to the decline of their horizontal (intI1 item) and vertical (potential hosts) transfer-related elements under high-temperature. This research demonstrated that rapid startup thermophilic anaerobic digestion of wastewater solids would be a suitable technology for reducing quantities of various ARGs.

Bioinformatics for NGS-based metagenomics and the application to biogas research.Metagenomics has proven to be one of the most important research fields for microbial ecology during the last decade. Starting from 16S rRNA marker gene analysis for the characterization of community compositions to whole metagenome shotgun sequencing which additionally allows for functional analysis, metagenomics has been applied in a wide spectrum of research areas. The cost reduction paired with the increase in the amount of data due to the advent of next-generation sequencing led to a rapidly growing demand for bioinformatic software in metagenomics. By now, a large number of tools that can be used to analyze metagenomic datasets has been developed. The Bielefeld-Gießen center for microbial bioinformatics as part of the German Network for Bioinformatics Infrastructure bundles and imparts expert knowledge in the analysis of metagenomic datasets, especially in research on microbial communities involved in anaerobic digestion residing in biogas reactors. In this review, we give an overview of the field of metagenomics, introduce into important bioinformatic tools and possible workflows, accompanied by application examples of biogas surveys successfully conducted at the Center for Biotechnology of Bielefeld University.

Unraveling the Microbial Interactions and Metabolic Potentials in Pre- and Post-treated Sludge from a Wastewater Treatment Plant Using Metagenomic Studies.Sewage waste represents an ecosystem of complex and interactive microbial consortia which proliferate with different kinetics according to their individual genetic as well as metabolic potential. We performed metagenomic shotgun sequencing on Ion-Torrent platform, to explore the microbial community structure, their biological interactions and associated functional capacity of pre-treated/raw sludge (RS) and post-treated/dried sludge (DS) of wastewater treatment plant. Bacterial phylotypes belonging to  (∼45.80%) dominated the RS with relatively few Archaea (∼1.94%) whereas DS has the dominance of - (30.23%) and - (13.38%) classes of  with relatively greater abundance of  (∼7.18%). In particular,  appears as a primary energy source in RS and sulfur-reducing bacteria with methanogens seems to be in the potential syntrophic association in DS. These interactions could be ultimately responsible for carrying out amino-acid degradation, aromatic compound degradation and degradation of propionate and butyrate in DS. Our data also reveal the presence of key genes in the sludge microbial community responsible for degradation of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons. Potential pathogenic microbes and genes for the virulence factors were found to be relatively abundant in RS which clearly reflect the necessity of treatment of RS. After treatment, potential pathogens load was reduced, indicating the sludge hygienisation in DS. Additionally, the interactions found in this study would reveal the biological and environmental cooperation among microbial communities for domestic wastewater treatment.

The human jejunum has an endogenous microbiota that differs from those in the oral cavity and colon.The upper half of the human small intestine, known as the jejunum, is the primary site for absorption of nutrient-derived carbohydrates, amino acids, small peptides, and vitamins. In contrast to the colon, which contains 10-10 colony forming units of bacteria per ml (CFU/ml), the normal jejunum generally ranges from 10 to 10 CFU per ml. Because invasive procedures are required to access the jejunum, much less is known about its bacterial microbiota. Bacteria inhabiting the jejunal lumen have been investigated by classical culture techniques, but not by culture-independent metagenomics.
The lumen of the upper jejunum was sampled during enteroscopy of 20 research subjects. Culture on aerobic and anaerobic media gave live bacterial counts ranging from 5.8 × 10 CFU/ml to 8.0 × 10 CFU/ml. DNA from the same samples was analyzed by 16S rRNA gene-specific quantitative PCR, yielding values from 1.5 × 10 to 3.1 × 10 bacterial genomes per ml. When calculated for each sample, estimated bacterial viability ranged from effectively 100% to a low of 0.3%. 16S rRNA metagenomic analysis of uncultured bacteria by Illumina MiSeq sequencing gave detailed microbial composition by phylum, genus and species. The genera Streptococcus, Prevotella, Veillonella and Fusobacterium, were especially abundant, as well as non-oral genera including Escherichia, Klebsiella, and Citrobacter. The jejunum was devoid of the genera Alistipes, Ruminococcus, Faecalibacterium, and other extreme anaerobes abundant in the colon. In patients with higher bacterial loads, there was no significant change in microbial species composition.
The jejunal lumen contains a distinctive bacterial population consisting primarily of facultative anaerobes and oxygen-tolerant obligate anaerobes similar to those found in the oral cavity. However, the frequent abundance of Enterobacteriaceae represents a major difference from oral microbiota. Although a few genera are shared with the colon, we found no evidence for retrograde movement of the most abundant colonic microbes to the jejunum. Some individuals had much higher bacterial loads, but this was not correlated with decreases in bacterial species diversity or other evidence of dysbiosis.

Culture-Independent Analyses Reveal Novel Anaerolineaceae as Abundant Primary Fermenters in Anaerobic Digesters Treating Waste Activated Sludge.Anaerobic digestion for biogas production is reliant on the tightly coupled synergistic activities of complex microbial consortia. Members of the uncultured A6 phylotype, within the phylum Chloroflexi, are among the most abundant genus-level-taxa of mesophilic anaerobic digester systems treating primary and surplus sludge from wastewater treatment plants, yet are known only by their 16S rRNA gene sequence. This study applied metagenomics to obtain a complete circular genome (2.57 Mbp) from a representative of the A6 taxon. Preliminary annotation of the genome indicates these organisms to be anaerobic chemoorganoheterotrophs with a fermentative metabolism. Given their observed abundance, they are likely important primary fermenters in digester systems. Application of fluorescence  hybridisation probes designed in this study revealed their morphology to be short filaments present within the flocs. The A6 were sometimes co-located with the filamentous Archaea  spp. suggesting potential undetermined synergistic relationships. Based on its genome sequence and morphology we propose the species name  gen. nov. sp. nov.

Metagenomic analysis reveals wastewater treatment plants as hotspots of antibiotic resistance genes and mobile genetic elements.The intensive use of antibiotics results in their continuous release into the environment and the subsequent widespread occurrence of antibiotic resistant bacteria (ARB), antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and mobile genetic elements (MGEs). This study used Illumina high-throughput sequencing to investigate the broad-spectrum profiles of both ARGs and MGEs in activated sludge and anaerobically digested sludge from a full-scale wastewater treatment plant. A pipeline for identifying antibiotic resistance determinants was developed that consisted of four categories: gene transfer potential, ARG potential, ARGs pathway and ARGs phylogenetic origin. The metagenomic analysis showed that the activated sludge and the digested sludge exhibited different microbial communities and changes in the types and occurrence of ARGs and MGEs. In total, 42 ARGs subtypes were identified in the activated sludge, while 51 ARG subtypes were detected in the digested sludge. Additionally, MGEs including plasmids, transposons, integrons (intI1) and insertion sequences (e.g. ISSsp4, ISMsa21 and ISMba16) were abundant in the two sludge samples. The co-occurrence pattern between ARGs and microbial taxa revealed by network analysis indicated that some environmental bacteria (e.g. Clostridium and Nitrosomonas) might be potential hosts of multiple ARGs. The findings increase our understanding of WWTPs as hotspots of ARGs and MGEs, and contribute towards preventing their release into the downstream environment.

Diversity of microbial carbohydrate-active enzymes in Danish anaerobic digesters fed with wastewater treatment sludge.Improved carbohydrate-active enzymes (CAZymes) are needed to fulfill the goal of producing food, feed, fuel, chemicals, and materials from biomass. Little is known about how the diverse microbial communities in anaerobic digesters (ADs) metabolize carbohydrates or which CAZymes that are present, making the ADs a unique niche to look for CAZymes that can potentiate the enzyme blends currently used in industry.
Enzymatic assays showed that functional CAZymes were secreted into the AD environments in four full-scale mesophilic Danish ADs fed with primary and surplus sludge from municipal wastewater treatment plants. Metagenomes from the ADs were mined for CAZymes with Homology to Peptide Patterns (HotPep). 19,335 CAZymes were identified of which 30% showed 50% or lower identity to known proteins demonstrating that ADs make up a promising pool for discovery of novel CAZymes. A function was assigned to 54% of all CAZymes identified by HotPep. Many different -glucan-acting CAZymes were identified in the four metagenomes, and the most abundant family was glycoside hydrolase family 13, which contains -glucan-acting CAZymes. Cellulytic and xylanolytic CAZymes were also abundant in the four metagenomes. The cellulytic enzymes were limited almost to endoglucanases and -glucosidases, which reflect the large amount of partly degraded cellulose in the sludge. No dockerin domains were identified suggesting that the cellulytic enzymes in the ADs studied operate independently. Of xylanolytic CAZymes, especially xylanases and -xylosidase, but also a battery of accessory enzymes, were present in the four ADs.
Our findings suggest that the ADs are a good place to look for novel plant biomass degrading and modifying enzymes that can potentiate biological processes and provide basis for production of a range of added-value products from biorefineries.

Biomethanation of Sewage Sludge with Food Waste Leachate Via Co-Digestion.Anaerobic mono- and co-digestion of sewage sludge and food waste leachate (FWL) were performed by assessing methane production and characterizing microbial communities. Anaerobic digestion (AD) of waste activated sludge (WAS) alone produced the lowest methane (281 ml CH), but an approximately 80% increase in methane production was achieved via co-digestion of WAS and FWL (506 ml CH). There were less differences in the diversity of bacterial communities in anaerobic digesters, while archaeal (ARC) and bacterial (BAC) amounts reflected AD performance. Compared with the total ARC and BAC amounts in the mono-digestion of WAS, the ARC and BAC amounts increased two and three times, respectively, during co-digestion of FWL and WAS. In characterized archaeal communities, the dominant ratio of hydrogenotrophic methanogens in the mono-digestion of WAS approached nearly a 1:1 ratio of the two acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogens in the co-digestion of FWL and WAS. The ARC/BAC ratio in the digesters varied in the range of 5.9% to 9.1%, indicating a positive correlation with the methane production of AD.

Pathways in bacterial and archaeal communities dictated by ammonium stress in a high solid anaerobic digester with dewatered sludge.Metagenomic comparisons of microbial profiles were conducted to investigate differences between the samples from steady (Day 42), ammonium-adjusting (Day 63), and ammonium-stressed (Day 102) periods during the 110-day operation of a high solid anaerobic digester of sewage sludge. Comparing to the steady period, biogas production was slightly inhibited after ammonium adjustment, during which the microbes showed higher abundance in 6 of the total 22 ammonium-related genes. In addition, among the 19 amino-acid-related genes, 9 genes involved in amino acid generation and utilization were reduced, which partially revealed the reason of deterioration of volatile solids (VSs) degradation following ammonium stress. Furthermore, although the acetoclastic pathway was to some extent inhibited with the decrease of biogas amount and content, no enhancement of genes involved in hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis was observed, elucidating the distinct role of ammonium stress in directing bacterial community structure toward the enhanced syntrophic acetate oxidation reaction.

ICoVeR - an interactive visualization tool for verification and refinement of metagenomic bins.Recent advances in high-throughput sequencing allow for much deeper exploitation of natural and engineered microbial communities, and to unravel so-called "microbial dark matter" (microbes that until now have evaded cultivation). Metagenomic analyses result in a large number of genomic fragments (contigs) that need to be grouped (binned) in order to reconstruct draft microbial genomes. While several contig binning algorithms have been developed in the past 2 years, they often lack consensus. Furthermore, these software tools typically lack a provision for the visualization of data and bin characteristics.
We present ICoVeR, the Interactive Contig-bin Verification and Refinement tool, which allows the visualization of genome bins. More specifically, ICoVeR allows curation of bin assignments based on multiple binning algorithms. Its visualization window is composed of two connected and interactive main views, including a parallel coordinates view and a dimensionality reduction plot. To demonstrate ICoVeR's utility, we used it to refine disparate genome bins automatically generated using MetaBAT, CONCOCT and MyCC for an anaerobic digestion metagenomic (AD microbiome) dataset. Out of 31 refined genome bins, 23 were characterized with higher completeness and lower contamination in comparison to their respective, automatically generated, genome bins. Additionally, to benchmark ICoVeR against a previously validated dataset, we used Sharon's dataset representing an infant gut metagenome.
ICoVeR is an open source software package that allows curation of disparate genome bins generated with automatic binning algorithms. It is freely available under the GPLv3 license at https://git.list.lu/eScience/ICoVeR . The data management and analytical functions of ICoVeR are implemented in R, therefore the software can be easily installed on any system for which R is available. Installation and usage guide together with the example files ready to be visualized are also provided via the project wiki. ICoVeR running instance preloaded with AD microbiome and Sharon's datasets can be accessed via the website.

Exploration of the relationship between biogas production and microbial community under high salinity conditions.High salinity frequently causes inhibition and even failure in anaerobic digestion. To explore the impact of increasing NaCl concentrations on biogas production, and reveal the microbial community variations in response to high salinity stress, the Illumina high-throughput sequencing technology was employed. The results showed that a NaCl concentration of 20 g/L (H group) exhibited a similar level of VFAs and specific CO production rate with that in the blank group, thus indicating that the bacterial activity in acidogenesis might not be inhibited. However, the methanogenic activity in the H group was significantly affected compared with that in the blank group, causing a 42.2% decrease in CH production, a 37.12% reduction in the specific CH generation rate and a lower pH value. Illumina sequencing revealed that microbial communities between the blank and H groups were significantly different. Bacteroides, Clostridium and BA021 uncultured were the dominant species in the blank group while some halotolerant genera, such as Thermovirga, Soehngenia and Actinomyces, dominated and complemented the hydrolytic and acidogenetic abilities in the H group. Additionally, the most abundant archaeal species included Methanosaeta, Methanolinea, Methanospirillum and Methanoculleus in both groups, but hydrogenotrophic methanogens showed a lower resistance to high salinity than aceticlastic methanogens.

The low diverse gastric microbiome of the jellyfish Cotylorhiza tuberculata is dominated by four novel taxa.Cotylorhiza tuberculata is an important scyphozoan jellyfish producing population blooms in the Mediterranean probably due to pelagic ecosystem's decay. Its gastric cavity can serve as a simple model of microbial-animal digestive associations, yet poorly characterized. Using state-of-the-art metagenomic population binning and catalyzed reporter deposition fluorescence in situ hybridization (CARD-FISH), we show that only four novel clonal phylotypes were consistently associated with multiple jellyfish adults. Two affiliated close to Spiroplasma and Mycoplasma genera, one to chlamydial 'Candidatus Syngnamydia', and one to bacteroidetal Tenacibaculum, and were at least one order of magnitude more abundant than any other bacteria detected. Metabolic modelling predicted an aerobic heterotrophic lifestyle for the chlamydia, which were found intracellularly in Onychodromopsis-like ciliates. The Spiroplasma-like organism was predicted to be an anaerobic fermenter associated to some jellyfish cells, whereas the Tenacibaculum-like as free-living aerobic heterotroph, densely colonizing the mesogleal axis inside the gastric filaments. The association between the jellyfish and its reduced microbiome was close and temporally stable, and possibly related to food digestion and protection from pathogens. Based on the genomic and microscopic data, we propose three candidate taxa: 'Candidatus Syngnamydia medusae', 'Candidatus Medusoplasma mediterranei' and 'Candidatus Tenacibaculum medusae'.

Effect of bioaugmentation by cellulolytic bacteria enriched from sheep rumen on methane production from wheat straw.The aim of this study was to determine the potential of bioaugmentation with cellulolytic rumen microbiota to enhance the anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic feedstock. An anaerobic cellulolytic culture was enriched from sheep rumen fluid using wheat straw as substrate under mesophilic conditions. To investigate the effects of bioaugmentation on methane production from straw, the enrichment culture was added to batch reactors in proportions of 2% (Set-1) and 4% (Set-2) of the microbial cell number of the standard inoculum slurry. The methane production in the bioaugmented reactors was higher than in the control reactors. After 30 days of batch incubation, the average methane yield was 154 mL CH g in the control reactors. Addition of 2% enrichment culture did not enhance methane production, whereas in Set-2 the methane yield was increased by 27%. The bacterial communities were examined by 454 amplicon sequencing of 16S rRNA genes, while terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism (T-RFLP) fingerprinting of mcrA genes was applied to analyze the methanogenic communities. The results highlighted that relative abundances of Ruminococcaceae and Lachnospiraceae increased during the enrichment. However, Cloacamonaceae, which were abundant in the standard inoculum, dominated the bacterial communities of all batch reactors. T-RFLP profiles revealed that Methanobacteriales were predominant in the rumen fluid, whereas the enrichment culture was dominated by Methanosarcinales. In the batch rectors, the most abundant methanogens were affiliated to Methanobacteriales and Methanomicrobiales. Our results suggest that bioaugmentation with sheep rumen enrichment cultures can enhance the performance of digesters treating lignocellulosic feedstock.

Microbial dynamics in anaerobic digestion reactors for treating organic urban residues during the start-up process.Anaerobic digestion of organic residues offers economic benefits via biogas production, still methane (CH ) yield relies on the development of a robust microbial consortia for adequate substrate degradation, among other factors. In this study, we monitor biogas production and changes in the microbial community composition in two semi-continuous stirred tank reactors during the setting process under mesophilic conditions (35°C) using a 16S rDNA high-throughput sequencing method. Reactors were initially inoculated with anaerobic granular sludge from a brewery wastewater treatment plant, and gradually fed organic urban residues (4·0 kg VS m  day ) . The inocula and biomass samples showed changes related to adaptations of the community to urban organic wastes including a higher relative proportion of Clostridiales, with Ruminococcus spp. and Syntrophomonas spp. as recurrent species. Candidatus Cloacamonas spp. (Spirochaetes) also increased from ~2·2% in the inoculum to >10% in the reactor biomass. The new community consolidated the cellulose degradation and the propionate and amino acids fermentation processes. Acetoclastic methanogens were more abundant in the reactor, where Methanosaeta spp. was found as a key player. This study demonstrates a successful use of brewery treatment plant granular sludge to obtain a robust consortium for methane production from urban organic solid waste in Mexico.
This study describes the selection of relevant bacteria and archaea in anaerobic digesters inoculated with anaerobic granular sludge from a brewery wastewater treatment plant. Generally, these sludge granules are used to inoculate reactors digesting organic urban wastes. Though, it is still not clearly understood how micro-organisms respond to substrate variations during the reactor start-up process. After feeding two reactors with organic urban residues, it was found that a broader potential for cellulose degradation was developed including Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes and Spirochaetes. These results clarify the bacterial processes behind new reactors establishment for treating organic wastes in urban areas.

Antibiotic Resistance Genes and Correlations with Microbial Community and Metal Resistance Genes in Full-Scale Biogas Reactors As Revealed by Metagenomic Analysis.Digested residues from biogas plants are often used as biofertilizers for agricultural crops cultivation. The antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) in digested residues pose a high risk to public health due to their potential spread to the disease-causing microorganisms and thus reduce the susceptibility of disease-causing microorganisms to antibiotics in medical treatment. A high-throughput sequencing (HTS)-based metagenomic approach was used in the present study to investigate the variations of ARGs in full-scale biogas reactors and the correlations of ARGs with microbial communities and metal resistance genes (MRGs). The total abundance of ARGs in all the samples varied from 7 × 10 to 1.08 × 10 copy of ARG/copy of 16S-rRNA gene, and the samples obtained from thermophilic biogas reactors had a lower total abundance of ARGs, indicating the superiority of thermophilic anaerobic digestion for ARGs removal. ARGs in all the samples were composed of 175 ARG subtypes; however, only 7 ARG subtypes were shared by all the samples. Principal component analysis and canonical correspondence analysis clustered the samples into three groups (samples from manure-based mesophilic reactors, manure-based thermophilic reactors, and sludge-based mesophilic reactors), and substrate, temperature, and hydraulic retention time (HRT) as well as volatile fatty acids (VFAs) were identified as crucial environmental variables affecting the ARGs compositions. Procrustes analysis revealed microbial community composition was the determinant of ARGs composition in biogas reactors, and there was also a significant correlation between ARGs composition and MRGs composition. Network analysis further revealed the co-occurrence of ARGs with specific microorganisms and MRGs.

A novel archaeal species belonging to Methanoculleus genus identified via de-novo assembly and metagenomic binning process in biogas reactors.Recently, a first comprehensive catalogue of microbial genomes populating biogas reactors treating manure and agro-industrial residues was determined by sequencing samples collected from 22 biogas reactors including laboratory and full scale. Among the archaeal community, one of the most abundant methanogens belongs to Methanoculleus genus and for this reason it was provisionally named Methanoculleus sp. DTU006. Its full length 16S rRNA sequence is 97% similar to Methanoculleus marisnigri JR1 and to Methanoculleus palmolei DSM 4273. Despite the high similarity of the 16S gene sequence, Average Nucleotide Identity calculation (ANI) calculated on all protein encoding genes indicated that the two most similar species, Methanoculleus bourgensis MS2 and Methanoculleus sp. MAB1, are divergent enough to define Methanoculleus sp. DTU006 as new archaeal species. Its genome (2.15 Mbp) has an estimated completeness around 93%. Analysis of the metabolic pathways using KEGG confirmed that it is a hydrogenotrophic methanogen and therefore it is proposed the Candidatus status by naming it as "Candidatus Methanoculleus thermohydrogenotrophicum".

The effect of the source of microorganisms on adaptation of hydrolytic consortia dedicated to anaerobic digestion of maize silage.The main aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of the source of microorganisms on the selection of hydrolytic consortia dedicated to anaerobic digestion of maize silage. The selection process was investigated based on the analysis of changes in the hydrolytic activity and the diversity of microbial communities derived from (i) a hydrolyzer of a commercial agricultural biogas plant, (ii) cattle slurry and (iii) raw sewage sludge, during a series of 10 passages. Following the selection process, the adapted consortia were thoroughly analyzed for their ability to utilize maize silage and augmentation of anaerobic digestion communities. The results of selection of the consortia showed that every subsequent passage of each consortium leads to their adaptation to degradation of maize silage, which was manifested by the increased hydrolytic activity of the adapted consortia. Biodiversity analysis (based on the 16S rDNA amplicon sequencing) confirmed the changes microbial community of each consortium, and showed that after the last (10th) passage all microbial communities were dominated by the representatives of Lactobacillaceae, Prevotellaceae, Veillonellaceae. The results of the functional analyses showed that the adapted consortia improved the efficiency of maize silage degradation, as indicated by the increase in the concentration of glucose and volatile fatty acids (VFAs), as well as the soluble chemical oxygen demand (sCOD). Moreover, bioaugmentation of anaerobic digestion communities by the adapted hydrolytic consortia increased biogas yield by 10-29%, depending on the origin of the community. The obtained results also indicate that substrate input (not community origin) was the driving force responsible for the changes in the community structure of hydrolytic consortia dedicated to anaerobic digestion.

Proteotyping of laboratory-scale biogas plants reveals multiple steady-states in community composition.Complex microbial communities are the functional core of anaerobic digestion processes taking place in biogas plants (BGP). So far, however, a comprehensive characterization of the microbiomes involved in methane formation is technically challenging. As an alternative, enriched communities from laboratory-scale experiments can be investigated that have a reduced number of organisms and are easier to characterize by state of the art mass spectrometric-based (MS) metaproteomic workflows. Six parallel laboratory digesters were inoculated with sludge from a full-scale BGP to study the development of enriched microbial communities under defined conditions. During the first three month of cultivation, all reactors (R1-R6) were functionally comparable regarding biogas productions (375-625 NL L d), methane yields (50-60%), pH values (7.1-7.3), and volatile fatty acids (VFA, <5 mM). Nevertheless, a clear impact of the temperature (R3, R4) and ammonia (R5, R6) shifts was observed for the respective reactors. In both reactors operated under thermophilic regime, acetic and propionic acid (10-20 mM) began to accumulate. While R4 recovered quickly from acidification, the levels of VFA remained to be high in R3 resulting in low pH values of 6.5-6.9. The digesters R5 and R6 operated under the high ammonia regime (>1 gNH L) showed an increase to pH 7.5-8.0, accumulation of acetate (>10 mM), and decreasing biogas production (<125 NL L d). Tandem MS (MS/MS)-based proteotyping allowed the identification of taxonomic abundances and biological processes. Although all reactors showed similar performances, proteotyping and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphisms (T-RFLP) fingerprinting revealed significant differences in the composition of individual microbial communities, indicating multiple steady-states. Furthermore, cellulolytic enzymes and cellulosomal proteins of Clostridium thermocellum were identified to be specific markers for the thermophilic reactors (R3, R4). Metaproteins found in R3 indicated hydrogenothrophic methanogenesis, whereas metaproteins of acetoclastic methanogenesis were identified in R4. This suggests not only an individual evolution of microbial communities even for the case that BGPs are started at the same initial conditions under well controlled environmental conditions, but also a high compositional variance of microbiomes under extreme conditions.

Microbial Respiration and Formate Oxidation as Metabolic Signatures of Inflammation-Associated Dysbiosis.Intestinal inflammation is frequently associated with an alteration of the gut microbiota, termed dysbiosis, which is characterized by a reduced abundance of obligate anaerobic bacteria and an expansion of facultative Proteobacteria such as commensal E. coli. The mechanisms enabling the outgrowth of Proteobacteria during inflammation are incompletely understood. Metagenomic sequencing revealed bacterial formate oxidation and aerobic respiration to be overrepresented metabolic pathways in a chemically induced murine model of colitis. Dysbiosis was accompanied by increased formate levels in the gut lumen. Formate was of microbial origin since no formate was detected in germ-free mice. Complementary studies using commensal E. coli strains as model organisms indicated that formate dehydrogenase and terminal oxidase genes provided a fitness advantage in murine models of colitis. In vivo, formate served as electron donor in conjunction with oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor. This work identifies bacterial formate oxidation and oxygen respiration as metabolic signatures for inflammation-associated dysbiosis.

In vitro fermentation of key dietary compounds with rumen fluid: A genome-centric perspective.The anaerobic decomposition of organic substrates leads to the generation of gases, such as methane, which can either be a valuable energy carrier in industrial applications or can be considered as a main greenhouse gas when it is naturally emitted. In this study we investigated in vitro the effect of dietary compounds, such as starch and proteins, on the microbial community present in the rumen fluid. High throughput shotgun sequencing, followed by metagenomic assembly and binning allowed the extraction of 18 genome bins. A composite bioinformatic analysis led to the prediction of metabolic pathways involved in the degradation of dietary compounds and in the biosynthesis of crucial products like propionate, methane and ammonia. The identification of genomes belonging to poorly characterized phyla such as Thermoplasmata and Elusimicrobia shed light on their putative role. The high abundance of methylotrophic archaea in the inoculum suggests a relevant role in methane production.

Divergent functional isoforms drive niche specialisation for nutrient acquisition and use in rumen microbiome.Many microbes in complex competitive environments share genes for acquiring and utilising nutrients, questioning whether niche specialisation exists and if so, how it is maintained. We investigated the genomic signatures of niche specialisation in the rumen microbiome, a highly competitive, anaerobic environment, with limited nutrient availability determined by the biomass consumed by the host. We generated individual metagenomic libraries from 14 cows fed an ad libitum diet of grass silage and calculated functional isoform diversity for each microbial gene identified. The animal replicates were used to calculate confidence intervals to test for differences in diversity of functional isoforms between microbes that may drive niche specialisation. We identified 153 genes with significant differences in functional isoform diversity between the two most abundant bacterial genera in the rumen (Prevotella and Clostridium). We found Prevotella possesses a more diverse range of isoforms capable of degrading hemicellulose, whereas Clostridium for cellulose. Furthermore, significant differences were observed in key metabolic processes indicating that isoform diversity plays an important role in maintaining their niche specialisation. The methods presented represent a novel approach for untangling complex interactions between microorganisms in natural environments and have resulted in an expanded catalogue of gene targets central to rumen cellulosic biomass degradation.

Characterization of the planktonic microbiome in upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactors during adaptation of mesophilic methanogenic granules to thermophilic operational conditions.Upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) technology refers to reactor technology where granules, i.e. self-immobilised microbial associations, are the biological catalysts involved in the anaerobic digestion process. During the start-up period, UASB reactors operate at relatively long HRT and therefore the liquid phase of the reactor becomes a favourable environment for microbial growth. The current study aimed to elucidate the dynamicity of the suspended microbial community in UASB reactors, during the transition from mesophilic to thermophilic conditions. High throughput 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing was used to characterize the taxonomic composition of the microbiome. The results showed that the microbial community was mainly composed by hydrolytic and fermentative bacteria. Results revealed relevant shifts in the microbial community composition, which is mainly determined by the operational conditions and the reactor performance. Finally, shared OTUs between the microbial consortia of the suspended and the granular sludge showed that planktonic microbiota is significantly influencing the granule microbial community composition.

Insights in Waste Management Bioprocesses Using Genomic Tools.Microbial capacities drive waste stabilization and resource recovery in environmental friendly processes. Depending on the composition of waste, a stress-mediated selection process ensures a scenario that generates a specific enrichment of microbial community. These communities dynamically change over a period of time while keeping the performance through the required utilization capacities. Depending on the environmental conditions, these communities select the appropriate partners so as to maintain the desired functional capacities. However, the complexities of these organizations are difficult to study. Individual member ratios and sharing of genetic intelligence collectively decide the enrichment and survival of these communities. The next-generation sequencing options with the depth of structure and function analysis have emerged as a tool that could provide the finer details of the underlying bioprocesses associated and shared in environmental niches. These tools can help in identification of the key biochemical events and monitoring of expression of associated phenotypes that will support the operation and maintenance of waste management systems. In this chapter, we link genomic tools with process optimization and/or management, which could be applied for decision making and/or upscaling. This review describes both, the aerobic and anaerobic, options of waste utilization process with the microbial community functioning as flocs, granules, or biofilms. There are a number of challenges involved in harnessing the microbial community intelligence with associated functional plasticity for efficient extension of microbial capacities for resource recycling and waste management. Mismanaged wastes could lead to undesired genotypes such as antibiotic/multidrug-resistant microbes.

Genome-guided design of a defined mouse microbiota that confers colonization resistance against Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium.Protection against enteric infections, also termed colonization resistance, results from mutualistic interactions of the host and its indigenous microbes. The gut microbiota of humans and mice is highly diverse and it is therefore challenging to assign specific properties to its individual members. Here, we have used a collection of murine bacterial strains and a modular design approach to create a minimal bacterial community that, once established in germ-free mice, provided colonization resistance against the human enteric pathogen Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium (S. Tm). Initially, a community of 12 strains, termed Oligo-Mouse-Microbiota (Oligo-MM), representing members of the major bacterial phyla in the murine gut, was selected. This community was stable over consecutive mouse generations and provided colonization resistance against S. Tm infection, albeit not to the degree of a conventional complex microbiota. Comparative (meta)genome analyses identified functions represented in a conventional microbiome but absent from the Oligo-MM. By genome-informed design, we created an improved version of the Oligo-MM community harbouring three facultative anaerobic bacteria from the mouse intestinal bacterial collection (miBC) that provided conventional-like colonization resistance. In conclusion, we have established a highly versatile experimental system that showed efficacy in an enteric infection model. Thus, in combination with exhaustive bacterial strain collections and systems-based approaches, genome-guided design can be used to generate insights into microbe-microbe and microbe-host interactions for the investigation of ecological and disease-relevant mechanisms in the intestine.

Novel Syntrophic Populations Dominate an Ammonia-Tolerant Methanogenic Microbiome.Biogas reactors operating with protein-rich substrates have high methane potential and industrial value; however, they are highly susceptible to process failure because of the accumulation of ammonia. High ammonia levels cause a decline in acetate-utilizing methanogens and instead promote the conversion of acetate via a two-step mechanism involving syntrophic acetate oxidation (SAO) to H and CO, followed by hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis. Despite the key role of syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria (SAOB), only a few culturable representatives have been characterized. Here we show that the microbiome of a commercial, ammonia-tolerant biogas reactor harbors a deeply branched, uncultured phylotype (unFirm_1) accounting for approximately 5% of the 16S rRNA gene inventory and sharing 88% 16S rRNA gene identity with its closest characterized relative. Reconstructed genome and quantitative metaproteomic analyses imply unFirm_1's metabolic dominance and SAO capabilities, whereby the key enzymes required for acetate oxidation are among the most highly detected in the reactor microbiome. While culturable SAOB were identified in genomic analyses of the reactor, their limited proteomic representation suggests that unFirm_1 plays an important role in channeling acetate toward methane. Notably, unFirm_1-like populations were found in other high-ammonia biogas installations, conjecturing a broader importance for this novel clade of SAOB in anaerobic fermentations.  The microbial production of methane or "biogas" is an attractive renewable energy technology that can recycle organic waste into biofuel. Biogas reactors operating with protein-rich substrates such as household municipal or agricultural wastes have significant industrial and societal value; however, they are highly unstable and frequently collapse due to the accumulation of ammonia. We report the discovery of a novel uncultured phylotype (unFirm_1) that is highly detectable in metaproteomic data generated from an ammonia-tolerant commercial reactor. Importantly, unFirm_1 is proposed to perform a key metabolic step in biogas microbiomes, whereby it syntrophically oxidizes acetate to hydrogen and carbon dioxide, which methanogens then covert to methane. Only very few culturable syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria have been described, and all were detected at low  levels compared to unFirm_1. Broader comparisons produced the hypothesis that unFirm_1 is a key mediator toward the successful long-term stable operation of biogas production using protein-rich substrates.

Quantitative Metaproteomics Highlight the Metabolic Contributions of Uncultured Phylotypes in a Thermophilic Anaerobic Digester.In this study, we used multiple meta-omic approaches to characterize the microbial community and the active metabolic pathways of a stable industrial biogas reactor with food waste as the dominant feedstock, operating at thermophilic temperatures (60°C) and elevated levels of free ammonia (367 mg/liter NH-N). The microbial community was strongly dominated (76% of all 16S rRNA amplicon sequences) by populations closely related to the proteolytic bacterium Coprothermobacter proteolyticus. Multiple Coprothermobacter-affiliated strains were detected, introducing an additional level of complexity seldom explored in biogas studies. Genome reconstructions provided metabolic insight into the microbes that performed biomass deconstruction and fermentation, including the deeply branching phyla Dictyoglomi and Planctomycetes and the candidate phylum "Atribacteria" These biomass degraders were complemented by a synergistic network of microorganisms that convert key fermentation intermediates (fatty acids) via syntrophic interactions with hydrogenotrophic methanogens to ultimately produce methane. Interpretation of the proteomics data also suggested activity of a Methanosaeta phylotype acclimatized to high ammonia levels. In particular, we report multiple novel phylotypes proposed as syntrophic acetate oxidizers, which also exert expression of enzymes needed for both the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway and β-oxidation of fatty acids to acetyl coenzyme A. Such an arrangement differs from known syntrophic oxidizing bacteria and presents an interesting hypothesis for future studies. Collectively, these findings provide increased insight into active metabolic roles of uncultured phylotypes and presents new synergistic relationships, both of which may contribute to the stability of the biogas reactor.
Biogas production through anaerobic digestion of organic waste provides an attractive source of renewable energy and a sustainable waste management strategy. A comprehensive understanding of the microbial community that drives anaerobic digesters is essential to ensure stable and efficient energy production. Here, we characterize the intricate microbial networks and metabolic pathways in a thermophilic biogas reactor. We discuss the impact of frequently encountered microbial populations as well as the metabolism of newly discovered novel phylotypes that seem to play distinct roles within key microbial stages of anaerobic digestion in this stable high-temperature system. In particular, we draft a metabolic scenario whereby multiple uncultured syntrophic acetate-oxidizing bacteria are capable of syntrophically oxidizing acetate as well as longer-chain fatty acids (via the β-oxidation and Wood-Ljundahl pathways) to hydrogen and carbon dioxide, which methanogens subsequently convert to methane.

Metagenomic analysis and performance of a mesophilic anaerobic reactor treating food waste at various load rates.The performance of a demonstration-scale anaerobic reactor treating food waste was evaluated with an emphasis on microbial response to increasing organic loading rates (OLRs). The reactor exhibited a stable performance in terms of methane yield at OLR ranging from 1.0 to 2.4 kg VS L day (phases I and II), compared to that at phase III (OLR: 1.0-1.5 kg VS L day) when the food waste exhibited greater acidity. Deep sequencing analysis revealed shifts in the microbial composition at each operational phase. The phyla Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes were favoured, whereas the abundance of Proteobacteria and Chloroflexi decreased at higher OLRs, indicating that fermenting-, hydrolytic- (and acidogenic) bacteria were selected under this condition. Changes were observed in the composition of methanogens, and not the abundance, in response to a shift in OLR. Methanosaeta and Methanospirillum dominated at low OLRs, indicating the importance of both acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogens for methane production during this condition. Methanosaeta almost disappeared at high OLRs, whereas Methanoculleus was favoured. Syntrophic prokaryotes were in high abundance (>9%), indicating that syntrophic methane production was important in this reactor. Syntrophic interactions between hydrogen-producer (Syntrophomonas and Desulfosporosinus) and hydrogenotrophic methanogens were more evident at high OLR. These results indicate that hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis contributed significantly to methane production at higher OLRs than when the reactor was operated at low OLR.

Elucidating selection processes for antibiotic resistance in sewage treatment plants using metagenomics.Sewage treatment plants (STPs) have repeatedly been suggested as "hotspots" for the emergence and dissemination of antibiotic-resistant bacteria. A critical question still unanswered is if selection pressures within STPs, caused by residual antibiotics or other co-selective agents, are sufficient to specifically promote resistance. To address this, we employed shotgun metagenomic sequencing of samples from different steps of the treatment process in three Swedish STPs. In parallel, concentrations of selected antibiotics, biocides and metals were analyzed. We found that concentrations of tetracycline and ciprofloxacin in the influent were above predicted concentrations for resistance selection, however, there was no consistent enrichment of resistance genes to any particular class of antibiotics in the STPs, neither for biocide and metal resistance genes. The most substantial change of the bacterial communities compared to human feces occurred already in the sewage pipes, manifested by a strong shift from obligate to facultative anaerobes. Through the treatment process, resistance genes against antibiotics, biocides and metals were not reduced to the same extent as fecal bacteria. The OXA-48 gene was consistently enriched in surplus and digested sludge. We find this worrying as OXA-48, still rare in Swedish clinical isolates, provides resistance to carbapenems, one of our most critically important classes of antibiotics. Taken together, metagenomics analyses did not provide clear support for specific antibiotic resistance selection. However, stronger selective forces affecting gross taxonomic composition, and with that resistance gene abundances, limit interpretability. Comprehensive analyses of resistant/non-resistant strains within relevant species are therefore warranted.

Unraveling the microbiome of a thermophilic biogas plant by metagenome and metatranscriptome analysis complemented by characterization of bacterial and archaeal isolates.One of the most promising technologies to sustainably produce energy and to mitigate greenhouse gas emissions from combustion of fossil energy carriers is the anaerobic digestion and biomethanation of organic raw material and waste towards biogas by highly diverse microbial consortia. In this context, the microbial systems ecology of thermophilic industrial-scale biogas plants is poorly understood.
The microbial community structure of an exemplary thermophilic biogas plant was analyzed by a comprehensive approach comprising the analysis of the microbial metagenome and metatranscriptome complemented by the cultivation of hydrolytic and acido-/acetogenic Bacteria as well as methanogenic Archaea. Analysis of metagenome-derived 16S rRNA gene sequences revealed that the bacterial genera Defluviitoga (5.5 %), Halocella (3.5 %), Clostridium sensu stricto (1.9 %), Clostridium cluster III (1.5 %), and Tepidimicrobium (0.7 %) were most abundant. Among the Archaea, Methanoculleus (2.8 %) and Methanothermobacter (0.8 %) were predominant. As revealed by a metatranscriptomic 16S rRNA analysis, Defluviitoga (9.2 %), Clostridium cluster III (4.8 %), and Tepidanaerobacter (1.1 %) as well as Methanoculleus (5.7 %) mainly contributed to these sequence tags indicating their metabolic activity, whereas Hallocella (1.8 %), Tepidimicrobium (0.5 %), and Methanothermobacter (<0.1 %) were transcriptionally less active. By applying 11 different cultivation strategies, 52 taxonomically different microbial isolates representing the classes Clostridia, Bacilli, Thermotogae, Methanomicrobia and Methanobacteria were obtained. Genome analyses of isolates support the finding that, besides Clostridium thermocellum and Clostridium stercorarium, Defluviitoga tunisiensis participated in the hydrolysis of hemicellulose producing ethanol, acetate, and H2/CO2. The latter three metabolites are substrates for hydrogentrophic and acetoclastic archaeal methanogenesis.
Obtained results showed that high abundance of microorganisms as deduced from metagenome analysis does not necessarily indicate high transcriptional or metabolic activity, and vice versa. Additionally, it appeared that the microbiome of the investigated thermophilic biogas plant comprised a huge number of up to now unknown and insufficiently characterized species.

Anaerobic digestion of chemically enhanced primary treatment (CEPT) sludge and the microbial community structure.The effectiveness and treatment conditions of FeCl3- and AlCl3-coagulated municipal sewage sludge from chemically enhanced primary treatment (CEPT) using anaerobic digestion (AD) and the structure of microbial community were investigated. The results based on 297 measurements under different operational conditions demonstrate good average AD performance of CEPT sludge, that is, percent volatile solid reduction of 58 %, specific biogas production (or biogas yield) of 0.92 m(3)/kg volatile solids (VS) destroyed, and methane content of 65.4 %. FeCl3 dosing, organic loading rate, temperature, and hydraulic retention time all significantly affected AD performance. FeCl3 dosing greatly improved specific methane production (methane yield) by 38-54 % and significantly reduced hydrogen sulfide (H2S) content in biogas (from up to 13,250 to <200 ppm), contributing to higher methane recovery and simplified biogas cleaning for power generation. Metagenomic analysis suggested that anaerobic digesters of both CEPT sludge and combined primary and secondary sludge were dominated by Bacteroidetes, Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, Thermotogae, and Chloroflexi. However, Methanomicrobia methanogens were better enriched in the anaerobic digesters of CEPT sludge than in the combined sludge. Further, different sources of CEPT sludge with various chemical properties nurtured shared and unique microbial community composition. Combined, this study supports AD as an efficient technology for CEPT sludge treatment and poses first insights into the microbial community structure.

Identification and genome reconstruction of abundant distinct taxa in microbiomes from one thermophilic and three mesophilic production-scale biogas plants.Biofuel production from conversion of biomass is indispensable in the portfolio of renewable energies. Complex microbial communities are involved in the anaerobic digestion process of plant material, agricultural residual products and food wastes. Analysis of the genetic potential and microbiology of communities degrading biomass to biofuels is considered to be the key to develop process optimisation strategies. Hence, due to the still incomplete taxonomic and functional characterisation of corresponding communities, new and unknown species are of special interest.
Three mesophilic and one thermophilic production-scale biogas plants (BGPs) were taxonomically profiled using high-throughput 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing. All BGPs shared a core microbiome with the thermophilic BGP featuring the lowest diversity. However, the phyla Cloacimonetes and Spirochaetes were unique to BGPs 2 and 3, Fusobacteria were only found in BGP3 and members of the phylum Thermotogae were present only in the thermophilic BGP4. Taxonomic analyses revealed that these distinctive taxa mostly represent so far unknown species. The only exception is the dominant Thermotogae OTU featuring 16S rRNA gene sequence identity to Defluviitoga tunisiensis L3, a sequenced and characterised strain. To further investigate the genetic potential of the biogas communities, corresponding metagenomes were sequenced in a deepness of 347.5 Gbp in total. A combined assembly comprised 80.3 % of all reads and resulted in the prediction of 1.59 million genes on assembled contigs. Genome binning yielded genome bins comprising the prevalent distinctive phyla Cloacimonetes, Spirochaetes, Fusobacteria and Thermotogae. Comparative genome analyses between the most dominant Thermotogae bin and the very closely related Defluviitoga tunisiensis L3 genome originating from the same BGP revealed high genetic similarity. This finding confirmed applicability and reliability of the binning approach. The four highly covered genome bins of the other three distinct phyla showed low or very low genetic similarities to their closest phylogenetic relatives, and therefore indicated their novelty.
In this study, the 16S rRNA gene sequencing approach and a combined metagenome assembly and binning approach were used for the first time on different production-scale biogas plants and revealed insights into the genetic potential and functional role of so far unknown species.

Proteotyping of biogas plant microbiomes separates biogas plants according to process temperature and reactor type.Methane yield and biogas productivity of biogas plants (BGPs) depend on microbial community structure and function, substrate supply, and general biogas process parameters. So far, however, relatively little is known about correlations between microbial community function and process parameters. To close this knowledge gap, microbial communities of 40 samples from 35 different industrial biogas plants were evaluated by a metaproteomics approach in this study.
Liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry (Orbitrap Elite™ Hybrid Ion Trap-Orbitrap Mass Spectrometer) of all 40 samples as triplicate enabled the identification of 3138 different metaproteins belonging to 162 biological processes and 75 different taxonomic orders. The respective database searches were performed against UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot and seven metagenome databases. Subsequent clustering and principal component analysis of these data allowed for the identification of four main clusters associated with mesophile and thermophile process conditions, the use of upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactors and BGP feeding with sewage sludge. Observations confirm a previous phylogenetic study of the same BGP samples that was based on 16S rRNA gene sequencing by De Vrieze et al. (Water Res 75:312-323, 2015). In particular, we identified similar microbial key players of biogas processes, namely Bacillales, Enterobacteriales, Bacteriodales, Clostridiales, Rhizobiales and Thermoanaerobacteriales as well as Methanobacteriales, Methanosarcinales and Methanococcales. For the elucidation of the main biomass degradation pathways, the most abundant 1 % of metaproteins was assigned to the KEGG map 1200 representing the central carbon metabolism. Additionally, the effect of the process parameters (i) temperature, (ii) organic loading rate (OLR), (iii) total ammonia nitrogen (TAN), and (iv) sludge retention time (SRT) on these pathways was investigated. For example, high TAN correlated with hydrogenotrophic methanogens and bacterial one-carbon metabolism, indicating syntrophic acetate oxidation.
This is the first large-scale metaproteome study of BGPs. Proteotyping of BGPs reveals general correlations between the microbial community structure and its function with process parameters. The monitoring of changes on the level of microbial key functions or even of the microbial community represents a well-directed tool for the identification of process problems and disturbances.Graphical abstractCorrelation between the different orders and process parameter, as well as principle component analysis of all investigated biogas plants based on the identified metaproteins.

Effects of geographic area, feedstock, temperature, and operating time on microbial communities of six full-scale biogas plants.The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of different animal feedings operated in two distinct PDO (protected designation of origin) cheese production areas (Parmigiano Reggiano and Grana Padano) on the microbiome of six full-scale biogas plants, by means of Illumina sequencing and qPCR techniques. The effects of feedstock (cattle slurry manure, energy crops, agro-industrial by-products), temperature (mesophilic/thermophilic), and operating time were also examined, as were the relationships between the predominant bacterial and archaeal taxa and process parameters. The different feedstocks and temperatures strongly affected the microbiomes. A more biodiverse archaeal population was highlighted in Parmigiano Reggiano area plants, suggesting an influence of the different animal feedings. Methanosarcina and Methanosaeta showed an opposite distribution among anaerobic plants, with the former found to be related to ammonium concentration. The Methanoculleus genus was more abundant in the thermophilic digester whereas representation of the Thermotogales order correlated with hydraulic retention time.

Mining of hemicellulose and lignin degrading genes from differentially enriched methane producing microbial community.Study creates a scenario for enrichment and selection of ligno-hemicellulose degrading genotypes with anaerobic bioreactor as a model using rice straw, vegetable waste and food waste as substrates. Relative discrimination analysis showed that the hydrolytic pathways and associated microbial communities for ligno-hemicellulose degradation were dominatingly colonized with rice straw as substrate. The dominating bacteria were Caldicellulosiruptor, Fervidobacterium, Cytophaga, Ruminococcus, Thermotoga associated with hemicellulose degradation and Burkholderia, Pandorea, Sphingomonas, Spirochaeta, Pseudomonas for lignocellulose hydrolysis. This was further supported by the abundance of anaerobic aromatic compound degrading genes along with genes for xylanase and xylosidase in rice straw enriched community. The metagenome analysis data was validated by evaluation of the biochemical methane potential for these substrates. Food waste being most amenable substrate yielded 1410mL of biogas/gVS added whereas, biogas yield of 1160mL/gVS and 1080mL/gVS was observed in presence of vegetable waste and rice straw respectively.

Genome-centric resolution of microbial diversity, metabolism and interactions in anaerobic digestion.Our understanding of the complex interconnected processes performed by microbial communities is hindered by our inability to culture the vast majority of microorganisms. Metagenomics provides a way to bypass this cultivation bottleneck and recent advances in this field now allow us to recover a growing number of genomes representing previously uncultured populations from increasingly complex environments. In this study, a temporal genome-centric metagenomic analysis was performed of lab-scale anaerobic digesters that host complex microbial communities fulfilling a series of interlinked metabolic processes to enable the conversion of cellulose to methane. In total, 101 population genomes that were moderate to near-complete were recovered based primarily on differential coverage binning. These populations span 19 phyla, represent mostly novel species and expand the genomic coverage of several rare phyla. Classification into functional guilds based on their metabolic potential revealed metabolic networks with a high level of functional redundancy as well as niche specialization, and allowed us to identify potential roles such as hydrolytic specialists for several rare, uncultured populations. Genome-centric analyses of complex microbial communities across diverse environments provide the key to understanding the phylogenetic and metabolic diversity of these interactive communities.

Deep metagenome and metatranscriptome analyses of microbial communities affiliated with an industrial biogas fermenter, a cow rumen, and elephant feces reveal major differences in carbohydrate hydrolysis strategies.The diverse microbial communities in agricultural biogas fermenters are assumed to be well adapted for the anaerobic transformation of plant biomass to methane. Compared to natural systems, biogas reactors are limited in their hydrolytic potential. The reasons for this are not understood.
In this paper, we show that a typical industrial biogas reactor fed with maize silage, cow manure, and chicken manure has relatively lower hydrolysis rates compared to feces samples from herbivores. We provide evidence that on average, 2.5 genes encoding cellulolytic GHs/Mbp were identified in the biogas fermenter compared to 3.8 in the elephant feces and 3.2 in the cow rumen data sets. The ratio of genes coding for cellulolytic GH enzymes affiliated with the Firmicutes versus the Bacteroidetes was 2.8:1 in the biogas fermenter compared to 1:1 in the elephant feces and 1.4:1 in the cow rumen sample. Furthermore, RNA-Seq data indicated that highly transcribed cellulases in the biogas fermenter were four times more often affiliated with the Firmicutes compared to the Bacteroidetes, while an equal distribution of these enzymes was observed in the elephant feces sample.
Our data indicate that a relatively lower abundance of bacteria affiliated with the phylum of Bacteroidetes and, to some extent, Fibrobacteres is associated with a decreased richness of predicted lignocellulolytic enzymes in biogas fermenters. This difference can be attributed to a partial lack of genes coding for cellulolytic GH enzymes derived from bacteria which are affiliated with the Fibrobacteres and, especially, the Bacteroidetes. The partial deficiency of these genes implies a potentially important limitation in the biogas fermenter with regard to the initial hydrolysis of biomass. Based on these findings, we speculate that increasing the members of Bacteroidetes and Fibrobacteres in biogas fermenters will most likely result in an increased hydrolytic performance.

Metagenomic Reconstruction of Key Anaerobic Digestion Pathways in Municipal Sludge and Industrial Wastewater Biogas-Producing Systems.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a microbial process widely used to treat organic wastes. While the microbes involved in digestion of municipal sludge are increasingly well characterized, the taxonomic and functional compositions of AD digesters treating industrial wastewater have been understudied. This study examined metagenomes from a biogas-producing digester treating municipal sludge in Shek Wu Hui (SWH), Hong Kong and an industrial wastewater digester in Guangzhou (GZ), China, and compared their taxonomic composition and reconstructed biochemical pathways. Genes encoding carbohydrate metabolism and protein metabolism functions were overrepresented in GZ, while genes encoding functions related to fatty acids, lipids and isoprenoids were overrepresented in SWH, reflecting the plants' feedstocks. Mapping of genera to functions in each community indicated that both digesters had a high level of functional redundancy, and a more even distribution of genera in GZ suggested that it was more functionally stable. While fermentation in both samples was dominated by Clostridia, SWH had an overrepresentation of Proteobacteria, including syntrophic acetogens, reflecting its more complex substrate. Considering the growing importance of biogas as an alternative fuel source, a detailed mechanistic understanding of AD is important and this report will be a basis for further study of industrial wastewater AD.

Deeper insight into the structure of the anaerobic digestion microbial community; the biogas microbiome database is expanded with 157 new genomes.This research aimed to better characterize the biogas microbiome by means of high throughput metagenomic sequencing and to elucidate the core microbial consortium existing in biogas reactors independently from the operational conditions. Assembly of shotgun reads followed by an established binning strategy resulted in the highest, up to now, extraction of microbial genomes involved in biogas producing systems. From the 236 extracted genome bins, it was remarkably found that the vast majority of them could only be characterized at high taxonomic levels. This result confirms that the biogas microbiome is comprised by a consortium of unknown species. A comparative analysis between the genome bins of the current study and those extracted from a previous metagenomic assembly demonstrated a similar phylogenetic distribution of the main taxa. Finally, this analysis led to the identification of a subset of common microbes that could be considered as the core essential group in biogas production.

Segregation of the Anodic Microbial Communities in a Microbial Fuel Cell Cascade.Metabolic interactions within microbial communities are essential for the efficient degradation of complex organic compounds, and underpin natural phenomena driven by microorganisms, such as the recycling of carbon-, nitrogen-, and sulfur-containing molecules. These metabolic interactions ultimately determine the function, activity and stability of the community, and therefore their understanding would be essential to steer processes where microbial communities are involved. This is exploited in the design of microbial fuel cells (MFCs), bioelectrochemical devices that convert the chemical energy present in substrates into electrical energy through the metabolic activity of microorganisms, either single species or communities. In this work, we analyzed the evolution of the microbial community structure in a cascade of MFCs inoculated with an anaerobic microbial community and continuously fed with a complex medium. The analysis of the composition of the anodic communities revealed the establishment of different communities in the anodes of the hydraulically connected MFCs, with a decrease in the abundance of fermentative taxa and a concurrent increase in respiratory taxa along the cascade. The analysis of the metabolites in the anodic suspension showed a metabolic shift between the first and last MFC, confirming the segregation of the anodic communities. Those results suggest a metabolic interaction mechanism between the predominant fermentative bacteria at the first stages of the cascade and the anaerobic respiratory electrogenic population in the latter stages, which is reflected in the observed increase in power output. We show that our experimental system represents an ideal platform for optimization of processes where the degradation of complex substrates is involved, as well as a potential tool for the study of metabolic interactions in complex microbial communities.

Increased Gut Redox and Depletion of Anaerobic and Methanogenic Prokaryotes in Severe Acute Malnutrition.Severe acute malnutrition (SAM) is associated with inadequate diet, low levels of plasma antioxidants and gut microbiota alterations. The link between gut redox and microbial alterations, however, remains unexplored. By sequencing the gut microbiomes of 79 children of varying nutritional status from three centers in Senegal and Niger, we found a dramatic depletion of obligate anaerobes in malnutrition. This was confirmed in an individual patient data meta-analysis including 107 cases and 77 controls from 5 different African and Asian countries. Specifically, several species of the Bacteroidaceae, Eubacteriaceae, Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococceae families were consistently depleted while Enterococcus faecalis, Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus were consistently enriched. Further analyses on our samples revealed increased fecal redox potential, decreased total bacterial number and dramatic Methanobrevibacter smithii depletion. Indeed, M. smithii was detected in more than half of the controls but in none of the cases. No causality was demonstrated but, based on our results, we propose a unifying theory linking microbiota specificity, lacking anaerobes and archaea, to low antioxidant nutrients, and lower food conversion.

Genomic characterization of Defluviitoga tunisiensis L3, a key hydrolytic bacterium in a thermophilic biogas plant and its abundance as determined by metagenome fragment recruitment.The genome sequence of Defluviitoga tunisiensis L3 originating from a thermophilic biogas-production plant was established and recently published as Genome Announcement by our group. The circular chromosome of D. tunisiensis L3 has a size of 2,053,097bp and a mean GC content of 31.38%. To analyze the D. tunisiensis L3 genome sequence in more detail, a phylogenetic analysis of completely sequenced Thermotogae strains based on shared core genes was performed. It appeared that Petrotoga mobilis DSM 10674(T), originally isolated from a North Sea oil-production well, is the closest relative of D. tunisiensis L3. Comparative genome analyses of P. mobilis DSM 10674(T) and D. tunisiensis L3 showed moderate similarities regarding occurrence of orthologous genes. Both genomes share a common set of 1351 core genes. Reconstruction of metabolic pathways important for the biogas production process revealed that the D. tunisiensis L3 genome encodes a large set of genes predicted to facilitate utilization of a variety of complex polysaccharides including cellulose, chitin and xylan. Ethanol, acetate, hydrogen (H2) and carbon dioxide (CO2) were found as possible end-products of the fermentation process. The latter three metabolites are considered to represent substrates for methanogenic Archaea, the key organisms in the final step of the anaerobic digestion process. To determine the degree of relatedness between D. tunisiensis L3 and dominant biogas community members within the thermophilic biogas-production plant, metagenome sequences obtained from the corresponding microbial community were mapped onto the L3 genome sequence. This fragment recruitment revealed that the D. tunisiensis L3 genome is almost completely covered with metagenome sequences featuring high matching accuracy. This result indicates that strains highly related or even identical to the reference strain D. tunisiensis L3 play a dominant role within the community of the thermophilic biogas-production plant.

Untangling the Effect of Fatty Acid Addition at Species Level Revealed Different Transcriptional Responses of the Biogas Microbial Community Members.In the present study, RNA-sequencing was used to elucidate the change of anaerobic digestion metatranscriptome after long chain fatty acids (oleate) exposure. To explore the general transcriptional behavior of the microbiome, the analysis was first performed on shotgun reads without considering a reference metagenome. As a second step, RNA reads were aligned on the genes encoded by the microbial community, revealing the expression of more than 51 000 different transcripts. The present study is the first research which was able to dissect the transcriptional behavior at a single species level by considering the 106 microbial genomes previously identified. The exploration of the metabolic pathways confirmed the importance of Syntrophomonas species in fatty acids degradation, and also highlighted the presence of protective mechanisms toward the long chain fatty acid effects in bacteria belonging to Clostridiales, Rykenellaceae, and in species of the genera Halothermothrix and Anaerobaculum. Additionally, an interesting transcriptional activation of the chemotaxis genes was evidenced in seven species belonging to Clostridia, Halothermothrix, and Tepidanaerobacter. Surprisingly, methanogens revealed a very versatile behavior different from each other, even among similar species of the Methanoculleus genus, while a strong increase of the expression level in Methanosarcina sp. was evidenced after oleate addition.

H2 metabolism is widespread and diverse among human colonic microbes.Microbial molecular hydrogen (H2) cycling is central to metabolic homeostasis and microbial composition in the human gastrointestinal tract. Molecular H2 is produced as an endproduct of carbohydrate fermentation and is reoxidised primarily by sulfate-reduction, acetogenesis, and methanogenesis. However, the enzymatic basis for these processes is incompletely understood and the hydrogenases responsible have not been investigated. In this work, we surveyed the genomic and metagenomic distribution of hydrogenase-encoding genes in the human colon to infer dominant mechanisms of H2 cycling. The data demonstrate that 70% of gastrointestinal microbial species listed in the Human Microbiome Project encode the genetic capacity to metabolise H2. A wide variety of anaerobically-adapted hydrogenases were present, with [FeFe]-hydrogenases predominant. We subsequently analyzed the hydrogenase gene content of stools from 20 healthy human subjects. The hydrogenase gene content of all samples was overwhelmingly dominated by fermentative and electron-bifurcating [FeFe]-hydrogenases emerging from the Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes. This study supports that H2 metabolism in the human gut is driven by fermentative H2 production and interspecies H2 transfer. However, it suggests that electron-bifurcation rather than respiration is the dominant mechanism of H2 reoxidation in the human colon, generating reduced ferredoxin to sustain carbon-fixation (e.g. acetogenesis) and respiration (via the Rnf complex). This work provides the first comprehensive bioinformatic insight into the mechanisms of H2 metabolism in the human colon.

Changes of resistome, mobilome and potential hosts of antibiotic resistance genes during the transformation of anaerobic digestion from mesophilic to thermophilic.This study aimed to reveal how antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and their horizontal and vertical transfer-related items (mobilome and bacterial hosts) respond to the transformation of anaerobic digestion (AD) from mesophilic to thermophilic using one-step temperature increase. The resistomes and mobilomes of mesophilic and thermophilic sludge were investigated using metagenome sequencing, and the changes in 24 representative ARGs belonging to three categories, class 1 integron and bacterial genera during the transition period were further followed using quantitative PCR and 454-pyrosequencing. After the temperature increase, resistome abundance in the digested sludge decreased from 125.97 ppm (day 0, mesophilic) to 50.65 ppm (day 57, thermophilic) with the reduction of most ARG types except for the aminoglycoside resistance genes. Thermophilic sludge also had a smaller mobilome, including plasmids, insertion sequences and integrons, than that of mesophilic sludge, suggesting the lower horizontal transfer potential of ARGs under thermophilic conditions. On the other hand, the total abundance of 18 bacterial genera, which were suggested as the possible hosts for 13 ARGs through network analysis, decreased from 23.27% in mesophilic sludge to 11.92% in thermophilic sludge, indicating fewer hosts for the vertical expansion of ARGs after the increase in temperature. These results indicate that the better reduction of resistome abundance by thermophilic AD might be associated with the decrease of both the horizontal and vertical transferability of ARGs.

Comparison of Methods to Identify Pathogens and Associated Virulence Functional Genes in Biosolids from Two Different Wastewater Treatment Facilities in Canada.The use of treated municipal wastewater residues (biosolids) as fertilizers is an attractive, inexpensive option for growers and farmers. Various regulatory bodies typically employ indicator organisms (fecal coliforms, E. coli and Salmonella) to assess the adequacy and efficiency of the wastewater treatment process in reducing pathogen loads in the final product. Molecular detection approaches can offer some advantages over culture-based methods as they can simultaneously detect a wider microbial species range, including non-cultivable microorganisms. However, they cannot directly assess the viability of the pathogens. Here, we used bacterial enumeration methods together with molecular methods including qPCR, 16S rRNA and cpn60 gene amplicon sequencing and shotgun metagenomic sequencing to compare pre- and post-treatment biosolids from two Canadian wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs). Our results show that an anaerobic digestion WWTP was unsuccessful at reducing the live indicator organism load (coliforms, generic E. coli and Salmonella) below acceptable regulatory criteria, while biosolids from a dewatering/pelletization WWTP met these criteria. DNA from other pathogens was detected by the molecular methods, but these species were considered less abundant. Clostridium DNA increased significantly following anaerobic digestion treatments. In addition to pathogen DNA, genes related to virulence and antibiotic resistance were identified in treated biosolids. Shotgun metagenomics revealed the widest range of pathogen DNA and, among the approaches used here, was the only approach that could access functional gene information in treated biosolids. Overall, our results highlight the potential usefulness of amplicon sequencing and shotgun metagenomics as complementary screening methods that could be used in parallel with culture-based methods, although more detailed comparisons across a wider range of sites would be needed.

Metagenomic Comparison of Antibiotic Resistance Genes Associated with Liquid and Dewatered Biosolids.Municipal biosolids (MBs) that are land-applied in North America are known to possess an active microbial population that can include human pathogens. Activated sludge is a hotspot for the accumulation of antibiotics and has been shown to be a selective environment for microorganisms that contain antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs); however, the prevalence of ARGs in MBs is not well characterized. In this study, we enriched the plasmid metagenome from raw sewage sludge and two CP2 MBs, a mesophilic anaerobic digestate and a dewatered digestate, to evaluate the presence of ARGs in mobile genetic elements. The CP2-class biosolids are similar to Class B biosolids in the United States. The CP2 biosolids must meet a microbiological cut off of 2 × 10 colony-forming units (CFU) per dry gram or 100 mL of biosolids. The enriched plasmid DNA was sequenced (Illumina MiSeq). Sequence matching against databases, including the Comprehensive Antibiotic Resistance Database (CARD), MG-RAST, and INTEGRALL, identified potential genes of interest related to ARGs and their ability to transfer. The presence and abundance of different ARGs varied between treatments with heterogeneity observed among the same sample types. The MBs plasmid-enriched metagenomes contained ARGs associated with resistance to a variety of antibiotics, including β-lactams, rifampicin, quinolone, and tetracycline as well as the detection of extended spectrum β-lactamase genes. Cultured bacteria from CP2 MBs possessed antibiotic resistances consistent with the MBs metagenome data including multiantibiotic-resistant isolates. The results from this study provide a better understanding of the ARG and MGE profile of the plasmid-enriched metagenome of CP2 MBs.

Genomic insights into members of the candidate phylum Hyd24-12 common in mesophilic anaerobic digesters.Members of the candidate phylum Hyd24-12 are globally distributed, but no genomic information or knowledge about their morphology, physiology or ecology is available. In this study, members of the Hyd24-12 lineage were shown to be present and abundant in full-scale mesophilic anaerobic digesters at Danish wastewater treatment facilities. In some samples, a member of the Hyd24-12 lineage was one of the most abundant genus-level bacterial taxa, accounting for up to 8% of the bacterial biomass. Three closely related and near-complete genomes were retrieved using metagenome sequencing of full-scale anaerobic digesters. Genome annotation and metabolic reconstruction showed that they are Gram-negative bacteria likely involved in acidogenesis, producing acetate and hydrogen from fermentation of sugars, and may play a role in the cycling of sulphur in the digesters. Fluorescence in situ hybridization revealed single rod-shaped cells dispersed within the flocs. The genomic information forms a foundation for a more detailed understanding of their role in anaerobic digestion and provides the first insight into a hitherto undescribed branch in the tree of life.

Metagenome changes in the biogas producing community during anaerobic digestion of rice straw.The present investigation was undertaken to study the microbial community succession in a sour and healthy digester. Ion torrent next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based metagenomic approach indicated abundance of hydrolytic bacteria and exclusion of methanogens and syntrophic bacteria in sour digester. Functional gene analysis revealed higher abundance of enzymes involved in acidogenesis and lower abundance of enzymes associated with methanogenesis like Methyl coenzyme M-reductase, F420 dependent reductase and Formylmethanofuran dehydrogenase in sour digester. Increased abundance of methanogens (Methanomicrobia) and genes involved in methanogenesis was observed in the restored/healthy digester highlighting revival of pH sensitive methanogenic community.

A Metagenomics Approach to Evaluate the Impact of Dietary Supplementation with Ascophyllum nodosum or Laminaria digitata on Rumen Function in Rusitec Fermenters.There is an increasing need to identify alternative feeds for livestock that do not compete with foods for humans. Seaweed might provide such a resource, but there is limited information available on its value as an animal feed. Here we use a multi-omics approach to investigate the value of two brown seaweeds, Ascophyllum nodosum (ASC) and Laminaria digitata (LAM), as alternative feeds for ruminants. These seaweeds were supplemented at 5% inclusion rate into a control diet (CON) in a rumen simulation fermenter. The seaweeds had no substantial effect on rumen fermentation, feed degradability or methane emissions. Concentrations of total bacteria, anaerobic fungi, biodiversity indices and abundances of the main bacterial and methanogen genera were also unaffected. However, species-specific effects of brown seaweed on the rumen function were noted: ASC promoted a substantial decrease in N degradability (-24%) due to its high phlorotannins content. Canonical correspondence analysis of the bacterial community revealed that low N availability led to a change in the structure of the bacterial community. ASC also decreased the concentration of Escherichia coli O157:H7 post-inoculation. In contrast, LAM which has a much lower phlorotannin content did not cause detrimental effects on N degradability nor modified the structure of the bacterial community in comparison to CON. This adaptation of the microbial community to LAM diets led to a greater microbial ability to digest xylan (+70%) and carboxy-methyl-cellulose (+41%). These differences among brown seaweeds resulted in greater microbial protein synthesis (+15%) and non-ammonia N flow (+11%) in LAM than in ASC diets and thus should led to a greater amino acid supply to the intestine of the animal. In conclusion, it was demonstrated that incorporation of brown seaweed into the diet can be considered as a suitable nutritional strategy for ruminants; however, special care must be taken with those seaweeds with high phlorotannin concentrations to prevent detrimental effects on N metabolism. This study highlights the value of combining fermentation and enzyme activity data with molecular characterization of the rumen microbiome in evaluating novel feeds for ruminants. Further experiments are required to determine the maximum seaweed inclusion rate tolerated by rumen microbes.

The human gut microbiome and its dysfunctions through the meta-omics prism.The microorganisms inhabiting the human gut are abundant (10(14) cells) and diverse (approximately 500 species per individual). It is now acknowledged that the microbiota has coevolved with its host to achieve a symbiotic relationship, leading to physiological homeostasis. The gut microbiota ensures vital functions, such as food digestibility, maturation of the host immune system, and protection against pathogens. Over the last few decades, the gut microbiota has also been associated with numerous diseases, such as inflammatory bowel disease, irritable bowel syndrome, obesity, and metabolic diseases. In most of these pathologies, a microbial dysbiosis has been found, indicating shifts in the taxonomic composition of the gut microbiota and changes in its functionality. Our understanding of the influence of the gut microbiota on human health is still growing. Working with microorganisms residing in the gut is challenging since most of them are anaerobic and a vast majority (approximately 75%) are uncultivable to date. Recently, a wide range of new approaches (meta-omics) has been developed to bypass the uncultivability and reveal the intricate mechanisms that sustain gut microbial homeostasis. After a brief description of these approaches (metagenomics, metatranscriptomics, metaproteomics, and metabolomics), this review will discuss the importance of considering the gut microbiome as a structured ecosystem and the use of meta-omics to decipher dysfunctions of the gut microbiome in diseases.

Metagenomic analysis and functional characterization of the biogas microbiome using high throughput shotgun sequencing and a novel binning strategy.Biogas production is an economically attractive technology that has gained momentum worldwide over the past years. Biogas is produced by a biologically mediated process, widely known as "anaerobic digestion." This process is performed by a specialized and complex microbial community, in which different members have distinct roles in the establishment of a collective organization. Deciphering the complex microbial community engaged in this process is interesting both for unraveling the network of bacterial interactions and for applicability potential to the derived knowledge.
In this study, we dissect the bioma involved in anaerobic digestion by means of high throughput Illumina sequencing (~51 gigabases of sequence data), disclosing nearly one million genes and extracting 106 microbial genomes by a novel strategy combining two binning processes. Microbial phylogeny and putative taxonomy performed using >400 proteins revealed that the biogas community is a trove of new species. A new approach based on functional properties as per network representation was developed to assign roles to the microbial species. The organization of the anaerobic digestion microbiome is resembled by a funnel concept, in which the microbial consortium presents a progressive functional specialization while reaching the final step of the process (i.e., methanogenesis). Key microbial genomes encoding enzymes involved in specific metabolic pathways, such as carbohydrates utilization, fatty acids degradation, amino acids fermentation, and syntrophic acetate oxidation, were identified. Additionally, the analysis identified a new uncultured archaeon that was putatively related to Methanomassiliicoccales but surprisingly having a methylotrophic methanogenic pathway.
This study is a pioneer research on the phylogenetic and functional characterization of the microbial community populating biogas reactors. By applying for the first time high-throughput sequencing and a novel binning strategy, the identified genes were anchored to single genomes providing a clear understanding of their metabolic pathways and highlighting their involvement in anaerobic digestion. The overall research established a reference catalog of biogas microbial genomes that will greatly simplify future genomic studies.

Biogeography of a human oral microbiome at the micron scale.The spatial organization of complex natural microbiomes is critical to understanding the interactions of the individual taxa that comprise a community. Although the revolution in DNA sequencing has provided an abundance of genomic-level information, the biogeography of microbiomes is almost entirely uncharted at the micron scale. Using spectral imaging fluorescence in situ hybridization as guided by metagenomic sequence analysis, we have discovered a distinctive, multigenus consortium in the microbiome of supragingival dental plaque. The consortium consists of a radially arranged, nine-taxon structure organized around cells of filamentous corynebacteria. The consortium ranges in size from a few tens to a few hundreds of microns in radius and is spatially differentiated. Within the structure, individual taxa are localized at the micron scale in ways suggestive of their functional niche in the consortium. For example, anaerobic taxa tend to be in the interior, whereas facultative or obligate aerobes tend to be at the periphery of the consortium. Consumers and producers of certain metabolites, such as lactate, tend to be near each other. Based on our observations and the literature, we propose a model for plaque microbiome development and maintenance consistent with known metabolic, adherence, and environmental considerations. The consortium illustrates how complex structural organization can emerge from the micron-scale interactions of its constituent organisms. The understanding that plaque community organization is an emergent phenomenon offers a perspective that is general in nature and applicable to other microbiomes.

A Phylogenomic Analysis of the Bacterial Phylum Fibrobacteres.The Fibrobacteres has been recognized as a bacterial phylum for over a decade, but little is known about the group beyond its environmental distribution, and characterization of its sole cultured representative genus, Fibrobacter, after which the phylum was named. Based on these incomplete data, it is thought that cellulose hydrolysis, anaerobic metabolism, and lack of motility are unifying features of the phylum. There are also contradicting views as to whether an uncultured sister lineage, candidate phylum TG3, should be included in the Fibrobacteres. Recently, chitin-degrading cultured representatives of TG3 were isolated from a hypersaline soda lake, and the genome of one species, Chitinivibrio alkaliphilus, sequenced and described in detail. Here, we performed a comparative analysis of Fibrobacter succinogenes, C. alkaliphilus and eight near or substantially complete Fibrobacteres/TG3 genomes of environmental populations recovered from termite gut, anaerobic digester, and sheep rumen metagenomes. We propose that TG3 should be amalgamated with the Fibrobacteres phylum based on robust monophyly of the two lineages and shared character traits. Polymer hydrolysis, using a distinctive set of glycoside hydrolases and binding domains, appears to be a prominent feature of members of the Fibrobacteres. Not all members of this phylum are strictly anaerobic as some termite gut Fibrobacteres have respiratory chains adapted to the microaerophilic conditions found in this habitat. Contrary to expectations, flagella-based motility is predicted to be an ancestral and common trait in this phylum and has only recently been lost in F. succinogenes and its relatives based on phylogenetic distribution of flagellar genes. Our findings extend current understanding of the Fibrobacteres and provide an improved basis for further investigation of this phylum.

Ammonia threshold for inhibition of anaerobic digestion of thin stillage and the importance of organic loading rate.Biogas production from nitrogen-rich feedstock results in release of ammonia (NH3), causing inhibition of the microbial process. The reported threshold ammonia value for stable biogas production varies greatly between studies, probably because of differences in operating conditions. Moreover, it is often difficult to separate the effect of ammonia inhibition from that of organic loading rate (OLR), as these two factors are often interrelated. This study attempted to distinguish the effects of ammonia and OLR by analysis of two laboratory-scale biogas reactors operating with thin stillage and subjected to an increase in free ammonia (from 0.30 to 1.1 g L(-1)) either by addition of an external nitrogen source (urea) or by increasing the OLR (3.2-6.0 g volatile solids L(-1) d(-1)). The results showed that ammonia concentration was detrimental for process performance, with the threshold for stability in both processes identified as being about 1 g NH3-N L(-1), irrespective of OLR. Analysis of the methanogenic community showed limited differences between the two reactors on order level and a clear increase in the abundance of Methanomicrobiales, particularly Methanoculleus sp., in response to increasing ammonia concentration. Further comprehensive molecular analysis revealed that diverse Methanoculleus species dominated in the reactors at a given ammonia level at different OLR. The acetogenic community was clearly affected by both ammonia concentration and OLR, suggesting that the volatile fatty acid load in relation to the higher OLR was important for the dynamics of this community.

Metagenome from a Spirulina digesting biogas reactor: analysis via binning of contigs and classification of short reads.Anaerobic digestion is a biological process in which a consortium of microorganisms transforms a complex substrate into methane and carbon dioxide. A good understanding of the interactions between the populations that form this consortium can contribute to a successful anaerobic digestion of the substrate. In this study we combine the analysis of the biogas production in a laboratory anaerobic digester fed with the microalgae Spirulina, a protein rich substrate, with the analysis of the metagenome of the consortium responsible for digestion, obtained by high-throughput DNA sequencing. The obtained metagenome was also compared with a metagenome from a full scale biogas plant fed with cellulose rich material.
The optimal organic loading rate for the anaerobic digestion of Spirulina was determined to be 4.0 g Spirulina L(-1) day(-1) with a specific biogas production of 350 mL biogas g Spirulina (-1) with a methane content of 68 %. Firmicutes dominated the microbial consortium at 38 % abundance followed by Bacteroidetes, Chloroflexi and Thermotogae. Euryarchaeota represented 3.5 % of the total abundance. The most abundant organism (14.9 %) was related to Tissierella, a bacterium known to use proteinaceous substrates for growth. Methanomicrobiales and Methanosarcinales dominated the archaeal community. Compared to the full scale cellulose-fed digesters, Pfam domains related to protein degradation were more frequently detected and Pfam domains related to cellulose degradation were less frequent in our sample.
The results presented in this study suggest that Spirulina is a suitable substrate for the production of biogas. The proteinaceous substrate appeared to have a selective impact on the bacterial community that performed anaerobic digestion. A direct influence of the substrate on the selection of specific methanogenic populations was not observed.

Taxonomic and functional metagenomic analysis of anodic communities in two pilot-scale microbial fuel cells treating different industrial wastewaters.The combined processes of microbial biodegradation accompanied by extracellular electron transfer make microbial fuel cells (MFCs) a promising new technology for cost-effective and sustainable wastewater treatment. Although a number of microbial species that build biofilms on the anode surfaces of operating MFCs have been identified, studies on the metagenomics of entire electrogenic communities are limited. Here we present the results of whole-genome metagenomic analysis of electrochemically active robust anodic microbial communities, and their anaerobic digester (AD) sludge inocula, from two pilot-scale MFC bioreactors fed with different distillery wastewaters operated under ambient conditions in distinct climatic zones. Taxonomic analysis showed that Proteobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes were abundant in AD sludge from distinct climatic zones, and constituted the dominant core of the MFC microbiomes. Functional analysis revealed species involved in degradation of organic compounds commonly present in food industry wastewaters. Also, accumulation of methanogenic Archaea was observed in the electrogenic biofilms, suggesting a possibility for simultaneous electricity and biogas recovery from one integrated wastewater treatment system. Finally, we found a range of species within the anode communities possessing the capacity for extracellular electron transfer, both via direct contact and electron shuttles, and show differential distribution of bacterial groups on the carbon cloth and activated carbon granules of the anode surface. Overall, this study provides insights into structural shifts that occur in the transition from an AD sludge to an MFC microbial community and the metabolic potential of electrochemically active microbial populations with wastewater-treating MFCs.

Enhancing metaproteomics--The value of models and defined environmental microbial systems.Metaproteomics--the large-scale characterization of the entire protein complement of environmental microbiota at a given point in time--has provided new features to study complex microbial communities in order to unravel these "black boxes." New technical challenges arose that were not an issue for classical proteome analytics before that could be tackled by the application of different model systems. Here, we review different current and future model systems for metaproteome analysis. Following a short introduction to microbial communities and metaproteomics, we introduce model systems for clinical and biotechnological research questions including acid mine drainage, anaerobic digesters, and activated sludge. Model systems are useful to evaluate the challenges encountered within (but not limited to) metaproteomics, including species complexity and coverage, biomass availability, or reliable protein extraction. The implementation of model systems can be considered as a step forward to better understand microbial community responses and ecological functions of single member organisms. In the future, improvements are necessary to fully explore complex environmental systems by metaproteomics.

Global prevalence and distribution of genes and microorganisms involved in mercury methylation.Mercury (Hg) methylation produces the neurotoxic, highly bioaccumulative methylmercury (MeHg). The highly conserved nature of the recently identified Hg methylation genes hgcAB provides a foundation for broadly evaluating spatial and niche-specific patterns of microbial Hg methylation potential in nature. We queried hgcAB diversity and distribution in >3500 publicly available microbial metagenomes, encompassing a broad range of environments and generating a new global view of Hg methylation potential. The hgcAB genes were found in nearly all anaerobic (but not aerobic) environments, including oxygenated layers of the open ocean. Critically, hgcAB was effectively absent in ~1500 human and mammalian microbiomes, suggesting a low risk of endogenous MeHg production. New potential methylation habitats were identified, including invertebrate digestive tracts, thawing permafrost soils, coastal "dead zones," soils, sediments, and extreme environments, suggesting multiple routes for MeHg entry into food webs. Several new taxonomic groups capable of methylating Hg emerged, including lineages having no cultured representatives. Phylogenetic analysis points to an evolutionary relationship between hgcA and genes encoding corrinoid iron-sulfur proteins functioning in the ancient Wood-Ljungdahl carbon fixation pathway, suggesting that methanogenic Archaea may have been the first to perform these biotransformations.

Impact of different ratios of feedstock to liquid anaerobic digestion effluent on the performance and microbiome of solid-state anaerobic digesters digesting corn stover.The objective of this study was to understand how the non-microbial factors of L-AD effluent affected the microbiome composition and successions in the SS-AD digesters using both Illumina sequencing and qPCR quantification of major genera of methanogens. The SS-AD digesters started with a feedstock/total effluent (F/Et) ratio 2.2 (half of the effluent was autoclaved) performed stably, while the SS-AD digesters started with a 4.4 F/Et ratio (no autoclaved effluent) suffered from digester acidification, accumulation of volatile fatty acids, and ceased biogas production two weeks after startup. Some bacteria and methanogens were affected by non-microbial factors of the L-AD fluent. Alkalinity, the main difference between the two F/Et ratios, may be the crucial factor when SS-AD digesters were started using L-AD effluent.

An 'omics' approach towards the characterisation of laboratory scale anaerobic digesters treating municipal sewage sludge.In this study, laboratory scale digesters were operated to simulate potential shocks to the Anaerobic Digestion (AD) process at a 350 ML/day wastewater treatment plant. The shocks included high (42 °C) and low (32 °C) temperature (either side of mesophilic 37 °C) and a 20% loading of fats, oil and grease (FOG; 20% w:v). These variables were explored at two sludge retention times (12 and 20 days) and two organic loading rates (2.0 and 2.5 kgTS/m(3)day OLR). Metagenomic and metabolomic approaches were then used to characterise the impact of operational shocks in regard to temperature and FOG addition, as determined through monitoring of biogas production, the microbial profile and their metabolism. Results showed that AD performance was not greatly affected by temperature shocks, with the biggest impact being a reduction in biogas production at 42 °C that persisted for 32 ± 1 days. The average biogas production across all digesters at the completion of the experiment was 264.1 ± 76.5 mL/day, with FOG addition observed to significantly promote biogas production (+87.8 mL/day). Metagenomic and metabolomic analyses of the digesters indicated that methanogens and methane oxidising bacteria (MOB) were low in relative abundance, and that the ratio of oxidising bacteria (methane, sulphide and sulphate) with respect to sulphate reducing bacteria (SRB) had a noticeable influence on biogas production. Furthermore, increased biogas production correlated with an increase in short chain fatty acids, a product of the addition of 20% FOG. This work demonstrates the application of metagenomics and metabolomics to characterise the microbiota and their metabolism in AD digesters, providing insight to the resilience of crucial microbial populations when exposed to operational shocks.

Phylogeny-structured carbohydrate metabolism across microbiomes collected from different units in wastewater treatment process.With respect to global priority for bioenergy production from plant biomass, understanding the fundamental genetic associations underlying carbohydrate metabolisms is crucial for the development of effective biorefinery process. Compared with gut microbiome of ruminal animals and wood-feed insects, knowledge on carbohydrate metabolisms of engineered biosystems is limited.
In this study, comparative metagenomics coupled with metabolic network analysis was carried out to study the inter-species cooperation and competition among carbohydrate-active microbes in typical units of wastewater treatment process including activated sludge and anaerobic digestion. For the first time, sludge metagenomes demonstrated rather diverse pool of carbohydrate-active genes (CAGs) comparable to that of rumen microbiota. Overall, the CAG composition correlated strongly with the microbial phylogenetic structure across sludge types. Gene-centric clustering analysis showed the carbohydrate pathways of sludge systems were shaped by different environmental factors, including dissolved oxygen and salinity, and the latter showed more determinative influence of phylogenetic composition. Eventually, the highly clustered co-occurrence network of CAGs and saccharolytic phenotypes, revealed three metabolic modules in which the prevalent populations of Actinomycetales, Clostridiales and Thermotogales, respectively, play significant roles as interaction hubs, while broad negative co-exclusion correlations observed between anaerobic and aerobic microbes, probably implicated roles of niche separation by dissolved oxygen in determining the microbial assembly.
Sludge microbiomes encoding diverse pool of CAGs was another potential source for effective lignocellulosic biomass breakdown. But unlike gut microbiomes in which Clostridiales, Lactobacillales and Bacteroidales play a vital role, the carbohydrate metabolism of sludge systems is built on the inter-species cooperation and competition among Actinomycetales, Clostridiales and Thermotogales.

Patterns of Endemism and Habitat Selection in Coalbed Microbial Communities.Microbially produced methane, a versatile, cleaner-burning alternative energy resource to fossil fuels, is sourced from a variety of natural and engineered ecosystems, including marine sediments, anaerobic digesters, shales, and coalbeds. There is a prevailing interest in developing environmental biotechnologies to enhance methane production. Here, we use small-subunit rRNA gene sequencing and metagenomics to better describe the interplay between coalbed methane (CBM) well conditions and microbial communities in the Alberta Basin. Our results show that CBM microbial community structures display patterns of endemism and habitat selection across the Alberta Basin, consistent with observations from other geographical locations. While some phylum-level taxonomic patterns were observed, relative abundances of specific taxonomic groups were localized to discrete wells, likely shaped by local environmental conditions, such as coal rank and depth-dependent physicochemical conditions. To better resolve functional potential within the CBM milieu, a metagenome from a deep volatile-bituminous coal sample was generated. This sample was dominated by Rhodobacteraceae genotypes, resolving a near-complete population genome bin related to Celeribacter sp. that encoded metabolic pathways for the degradation of a wide range of aromatic compounds and the production of methanogenic substrates via acidogenic fermentation. Genomic comparisons between the Celeribacter sp. population genome and related organisms isolated from different environments reflected habitat-specific selection pressures that included nitrogen availability and the ability to utilize diverse carbon substrates. Taken together, our observations reveal that both endemism and metabolic specialization should be considered in the development of biostimulation strategies for nonproductive wells or for those with declining productivity.

Shotgun metaproteomic profiling of biomimetic anaerobic digestion processes treating sewage sludge.Two parallel anaerobic digestion lines were designed to match a "bovid-like" digestive structure. Each of the lines consisted of two continuous stirred tank reactors placed in series and separated by an acidic treatment step. The first line was inoculated with industrial inocula whereas the second was seeded with cow digestive tract contents. After 3 months of continuous sewage sludge feeding, samples were recovered for shotgun metaproteomic and DNA-based analysis. Strikingly, protein-inferred and 16S ribosomal DNA tags based taxonomic community profiles were not consistent. PCA however revealed a similar clustering pattern of the samples, suggesting that reproducible methodological and/or biological factors underlie this observation. The performances of the two digestion lines did not differ significantly and the cow-derived inocula did not establish in the reactors. A low throughput metagenomic dataset (3.4 × 10(6) reads, 1.1 Gb) was also generated for one of the samples. It allowed a substantial increase of the analysis depth (11 vs. 4% of spectral identification rate for the combined samples). Surprisingly, a high proportion of proteins from members of the "Candidatus Competibacter" group, a key microbial player usually found in activated sludge plants, was retrieved in our anaerobic digester samples. Data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD002420 (http://proteomecentral.proteomexchange.org/dataset/PXD002420).

Complete genome analysis of Clostridium bornimense strain M2/40(T): A new acidogenic Clostridium species isolated from a mesophilic two-phase laboratory-scale biogas reactor.Taxonomic and functional profiling based on metagenome analyses frequently revealed that members of the class Clostridia dominate biogas reactor communities and perform different essential metabolic pathways in the biogas fermentation process. Clostridium bornimense strain M2/40(T) was recently isolated from a mesophilic two-phase lab-scale biogas reactor continuously fed with maize silage and wheat straw. The genome of the strain was completely sequenced and manually annotated to reconstruct its metabolic potential regarding carbohydrate active enzyme production and fermentation of organic compounds for consolidated biofuel production from biomass. The C. bornimense M2/40(T) genome consists of a chromosome (2,917,864bp in size) containing 2613 protein coding sequences, and a 699,161bp chromid (secondary replicon) harboring 680 coding sequences. Both replicons feature very similar GC-contents of approximately 29%. The complex genome comprises three prophage regions, two CRISPR-cas systems and a putative cellulosomal gene cluster that is located on the second replicon (chromid) of the strain. The overexpressed glycosyl hydrolases (GH) CelK (GH9) and CelA (GH48) encoded in the cellulosomal gene cluster were shown to be active on the substrates xylan and xyloglucan whereas XghA (GH74) is highly active on xyloglucan. Reconstruction of fermentation pathways from genome sequence data revealed that strain M2/40(T) encodes all enzymes for hydrogen, acetate, formate, lactate, butyrate, and ethanol production, leading to the classification of the isolate as acidogenic bacterium. Phylogenetic analyses uncovered that the closest characterized relative of C. bornimense is C. cellulovorans. Comparative analyses of the C. bornimense and C. cellulovorans genomes revealed considerable rearrangements within their chromosomes suggesting that both species evolved separately for a relatively long period of time and adapted to specific tasks within microbial consortia responsible for anaerobic digestion.

Deeply sequenced metagenome and metatranscriptome of a biogas-producing microbial community from an agricultural production-scale biogas plant.The production of biogas takes place under anaerobic conditions and involves microbial decomposition of organic matter. Most of the participating microbes are still unknown and non-cultivable. Accordingly, shotgun metagenome sequencing currently is the method of choice to obtain insights into community composition and the genetic repertoire.
Here, we report on the deeply sequenced metagenome and metatranscriptome of a complex biogas-producing microbial community from an agricultural production-scale biogas plant. We assembled the metagenome and, as an example application, show that we reconstructed most genes involved in the methane metabolism, a key pathway involving methanogenesis performed by methanogenic Archaea. This result indicates that there is sufficient sequencing coverage for most downstream analyses.
Sequenced at least one order of magnitude deeper than previous studies, our metagenome data will enable new insights into community composition and the genetic potential of important community members. Moreover, mapping of transcripts to reconstructed genome sequences will enable the identification of active metabolic pathways in target organisms.

Anaerobic digestion of the microalga Spirulina at extreme alkaline conditions: biogas production, metagenome, and metatranscriptome.A haloalkaline anaerobic microbial community obtained from soda lake sediments was used to inoculate anaerobic reactors for the production of methane rich biogas. The microalga Spirulina was successfully digested by the haloalkaline microbial consortium at alkaline conditions (pH 10, 2.0 M Na(+)). Continuous biogas production was observed and the obtained biogas was rich in methane, up to 96%. Alkaline medium acted as a CO2 scrubber which resulted in low amounts of CO2 and no traces of H2S in the produced biogas. A hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 15 days and 0.25 g Spirulina L(-1) day(-1) organic loading rate (OLR) were identified as the optimal operational parameters. Metagenomic and metatranscriptomic analysis showed that the hydrolysis of the supplied substrate was mainly carried out by Bacteroidetes of the "ML635J-40 aquatic group" while the hydrogenotrophic pathway was the main producer of methane in a methanogenic community dominated by Methanocalculus.

Discovery of intramolecular trans-sialidases in human gut microbiota suggests novel mechanisms of mucosal adaptation.The gastrointestinal mucus layer is colonized by a dense community of microbes catabolizing dietary and host carbohydrates during their expansion in the gut. Alterations in mucosal carbohydrate availability impact on the composition of microbial species. Ruminococcus gnavus is a commensal anaerobe present in the gastrointestinal tract of >90% of humans and overrepresented in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD). Using a combination of genomics, enzymology and crystallography, we show that the mucin-degrader R. gnavus ATCC 29149 strain produces an intramolecular trans-sialidase (IT-sialidase) that cleaves off terminal α2-3-linked sialic acid from glycoproteins, releasing 2,7-anhydro-Neu5Ac instead of sialic acid. Evidence of IT-sialidases in human metagenomes indicates that this enzyme occurs in healthy subjects but is more prevalent in IBD metagenomes. Our results uncover a previously unrecognized enzymatic activity in the gut microbiota, which may contribute to the adaptation of intestinal bacteria to the mucosal environment in health and disease.

Boosting methane generation by co-digestion of sludge with fruit and vegetable waste: Internal environment of digester and methanogenic pathway.The effects of anaerobic co-digestion of waste-mixed sludge with fruit and vegetable waste (FVW) on the methane generation of a mesophilic digester was investigated. Organic loading rates (OLR) were 1.46kgVS/m(3)day, 2.1kgVS/m(3)day and 2.8kgVS/m(3)day. Increase in the OLR due to FVW co-digestion caused modification of the internal environment of the digester, mainly in terms of N-NH4 (mg/L). Corresponding microbial populations were investigated by metagenomic high-throughput sequencing. Maximum specific bio-methane generation of 435 NLCH4 per kgVS feed was achieved for an OLR of 2.1kgVS/m(3)day, which corresponded to a biomethane generation per kgVS removed of about 1700 NLCH4. In these conditions the methanogenic pathway was dominated by aceticlastic Methanosaeta and hydrogenotrophic/aceticlastic Methanoscarcinae. Ammonia concentration in the digester resulted a key parameter for enhancing syntrophic acetate oxidation, enabling a balanced aceticlastic and hydrogenotrophic/aceticlastic methanogenic pathway.

Metagenome changes in the mesophilic biogas-producing community during fermentation of the green alga Scenedesmus obliquus.A microalgal biomass offers a potential alternative to the maize silage commonly used in biogas technology. In this study, photoautotrophically grown Scenedesmus obliquus was used as biogas substrate. This microalga has a low C/N ratio of 8.5 relative to the optimum 20-30. A significant increase in the ammonium ion content was not observed. The methane content of the biogas generated from Sc. obliquus proved to be higher than that from maize silage, but the specific biogas yield was lower. Semi-continuous steady biogas production lasted for 2 months. Because of the thick cell wall of Sc. obliquus, the biomass-degrading microorganisms require additional time to digest its biomass. The methane concentration in the biogas was also high, in co-digestion (i.e., 52-56%) as in alga-fed anaerobic digestion (i.e., 55-62%). These results may be related to the relative predominance of the order Clostridiales in co-digestion and to the more balanced C/N ratio of the mixed algal-maize biomass. Predominance of the order Methanosarcinales was observed in the domain Archaea, which supported the diversity of metabolic pathways in the process.

Noteworthy Facts about a Methane-Producing Microbial Community Processing Acidic Effluent from Sugar Beet Molasses Fermentation.Anaerobic digestion is a complex process involving hydrolysis, acidogenesis, acetogenesis and methanogenesis. The separation of the hydrogen-yielding (dark fermentation) and methane-yielding steps under controlled conditions permits the production of hydrogen and methane from biomass. The characterization of microbial communities developed in bioreactors is crucial for the understanding and optimization of fermentation processes. Previously we developed an effective system for hydrogen production based on long-term continuous microbial cultures grown on sugar beet molasses. Here, the acidic effluent from molasses fermentation was used as the substrate for methanogenesis in an upflow anaerobic sludge blanket bioreactor. This study focused on the molecular analysis of the methane-yielding community processing the non-gaseous products of molasses fermentation. The substrate for methanogenesis produces conditions that favor the hydrogenotrophic pathway of methane synthesis. Methane production results from syntrophic metabolism whose key process is hydrogen transfer between bacteria and methanogenic Archaea. High-throughput 454 pyrosequencing of total DNA isolated from the methanogenic microbial community and bioinformatic sequence analysis revealed that the domain Bacteria was dominated by Firmicutes (mainly Clostridia), Bacteroidetes, δ- and γ-Proteobacteria, Cloacimonetes and Spirochaetes. In the domain Archaea, the order Methanomicrobiales was predominant, with Methanoculleus as the most abundant genus. The second and third most abundant members of the Archaeal community were representatives of the Methanomassiliicoccales and the Methanosarcinales. Analysis of the methanogenic sludge by scanning electron microscopy with Energy Dispersive X-ray Spectroscopy and X-ray diffraction showed that it was composed of small highly heterogeneous mineral-rich granules. Mineral components of methanogenic granules probably modulate syntrophic metabolism and methanogenic pathways. A rough functional analysis from shotgun data of the metagenome demonstrated that our knowledge of methanogenesis is poor and/or the enzymes responsible for methane production are highly effective, since despite reasonably good sequencing coverage, the details of the functional potential of the microbial community appeared to be incomplete.

Dissecting microbial community structure and methane-producing pathways of a full-scale anaerobic reactor digesting activated sludge from wastewater treatment by metagenomic sequencing.Anaerobic digestion has been widely applied to treat the waste activated sludge from biological wastewater treatment and produce methane for biofuel, which has been one of the most efficient solutions to both energy crisis and environmental pollution challenges. Anaerobic digestion sludge contains highly complex microbial communities, which play crucial roles in sludge treatment. However, traditional approaches based on 16S rRNA amplification or fluorescent in situ hybridization cannot completely reveal the whole microbial community structure due to the extremely high complexity of the involved communities. In this sense, the next-generation high-throughput sequencing provides a powerful tool for dissecting microbial community structure and methane-producing pathways in anaerobic digestion.
In this work, the metagenomic sequencing was used to characterize microbial community structure of the anaerobic digestion sludge from a full-scale municipal wastewater treatment plant. Over 3.0 gigabases of metagenomic sequence data were generated with the Illumina HiSeq 2000 platform. Taxonomic analysis by MG-RAST server indicated that overall bacteria were dominant (~93%) whereas a considerable abundance of archaea (~6%) were also detected in the anaerobic digestion sludge. The most abundant bacterial populations were found to be Proteobacteria, Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and Actinobacteria. Key microorganisms and related pathways involved in methanogenesis were further revealed. The dominant proliferation of Methanosaeta and Methanosarcina, together with the functional affiliation of enzymes-encoding genes (acetate kinase (AckA), phosphate acetyltransferase (PTA), and acetyl-CoA synthetase (ACSS)), suggested that the acetoclastic methanogenesis is the dominant methanogenesis pathway in the full-scale anaerobic digester.
In short, the metagenomic sequencing study of this work successfully dissected the detail microbial community structure and the dominated methane-producing pathways of a full-scale anaerobic digester. The knowledge garnered would facilitate to develop more efficient full-scale anaerobic digestion systems to achieve high-rate waste sludge treatment and methane production.

Thermophilic and cellulolytic consortium isolated from composting plants improves anaerobic digestion of cellulosic biomass: Toward a microbial resource management approach.A cellulolytic consortium was isolated from a composting plant in order to boost the initial hydrolysis step encountered in anaerobic digestion. Improvement of the cellulose degradation, as well as biogas production, was observed for the cultures inoculated with the exogenous consortium. Metagenomics analyses pointed out a weak richness (related to the number of OTUs) of the exogenous consortium induced by the selective pressure (cellulose as sole carbon source) met during the initial isolation steps. Main microbial strains determined were strictly anaerobic and belong to the Clostridia class. During cellulose anaerobic degradation, pH drop induced a strong modification of the microbial population. Despite the fact that richness and evenness were very weak, the exogenous consortium was able to adapt and to maintain the cellulolytic degradation potential. This important result point out the fact that simplified microbial communities could be used in order to increase the robustness of mixed cultures involved in environmental biotechnology.

Characterization and detection of a widely distributed gene cluster that predicts anaerobic choline utilization by human gut bacteria.Elucidation of the molecular mechanisms underlying the human gut microbiota's effects on health and disease has been complicated by difficulties in linking metabolic functions associated with the gut community as a whole to individual microorganisms and activities. Anaerobic microbial choline metabolism, a disease-associated metabolic pathway, exemplifies this challenge, as the specific human gut microorganisms responsible for this transformation have not yet been clearly identified. In this study, we established the link between a bacterial gene cluster, the choline utilization (cut) cluster, and anaerobic choline metabolism in human gut isolates by combining transcriptional, biochemical, bioinformatic, and cultivation-based approaches. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR analysis and in vitro biochemical characterization of two cut gene products linked the entire cluster to growth on choline and supported a model for this pathway. Analyses of sequenced bacterial genomes revealed that the cut cluster is present in many human gut bacteria, is predictive of choline utilization in sequenced isolates, and is widely but discontinuously distributed across multiple bacterial phyla. Given that bacterial phylogeny is a poor marker for choline utilization, we were prompted to develop a degenerate PCR-based method for detecting the key functional gene choline TMA-lyase (cutC) in genomic and metagenomic DNA. Using this tool, we found that new choline-metabolizing gut isolates universally possessed cutC. We also demonstrated that this gene is widespread in stool metagenomic data sets. Overall, this work represents a crucial step toward understanding anaerobic choline metabolism in the human gut microbiota and underscores the importance of examining this microbial community from a function-oriented perspective.
Anaerobic choline utilization is a bacterial metabolic activity that occurs in the human gut and is linked to multiple diseases. While bacterial genes responsible for choline fermentation (the cut gene cluster) have been recently identified, there has been no characterization of these genes in human gut isolates and microbial communities. In this work, we use multiple approaches to demonstrate that the pathway encoded by the cut genes is present and functional in a diverse range of human gut bacteria and is also widespread in stool metagenomes. We also developed a PCR-based strategy to detect a key functional gene (cutC) involved in this pathway and applied it to characterize newly isolated choline-utilizing strains. Both our analyses of the cut gene cluster and this molecular tool will aid efforts to further understand the role of choline metabolism in the human gut microbiota and its link to disease.

Resource recovery from wastewater: application of meta-omics to phosphorus and carbon management.A growing trend at wastewater treatment plants is the recovery of resources and energy from wastewater. Enhanced biological phosphorus removal and anaerobic digestion are two established biotechnology approaches for the recovery of phosphorus and carbon, respectively. Meta-omics approaches (meta-genomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, and metabolomics) are providing novel biological insights into these complex biological systems. In particular, genome-centric metagenomics analyses are revealing the function and physiology of individual community members. Querying transcripts, proteins and metabolites are emerging techniques that can inform the cellular responses under different conditions. Overall, meta-omics approaches are shedding light into complex microbial communities once regarded as 'blackboxes', but challenges remain to integrate information from meta-omics into engineering design and operation guidelines.

The dynamic distribution of porcine microbiota across different ages and gastrointestinal tract segments.Metagenome of gut microbes has been implicated in metabolism, immunity, and health maintenance of its host. However, in most of previous studies, the microbiota was sampled from feces instead of gastrointestinal (GI) tract. In this study, we compared the microbial populations from feces at four different developmental stages and contents of four intestinal segments at maturity to examine the dynamic shift of microbiota in pigs and investigated whether adult porcine fecal samples could be used to represent samples of the GI tract. Analysis results revealed that the ratio of Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes from the feces of the older pigs (2-, 3-, 6- month) were 10 times higher compared to those from piglets (1-month). As the pigs matured, so did it seem that the composition of microbiome became more stable in feces. In adult pigs, there were significant differences in microbial profiles between the contents of the small intestine and large intestine. The dominant genera in the small intestine belonged to aerobe or facultative anaerobe categories, whereas the main genera in the large intestine were all anaerobes. Compared to the GI tract, the composition of microbiome was quite different in feces. The microbial profile in large intestine was more similar to feces than those in the small intestine, with the similarity of 0.75 and 0.38 on average, respectively. Microbial functions, predicted by metagenome profiles, showed the enrichment associated with metabolism pathway and metabolic disease in large intestine and feces while higher abundance of infectious disease, immune function disease, and cancer in small intestine. Fecal microbes also showed enriched function in metabolic pathways compared to microbes from pooled gut contents. Our study extended the understanding of dynamic shift of gut microbes during pig growth and also characterized the profiles of bacterial communities across GI tracts of mature pigs.

High-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing reveals alterations of mouse intestinal microbiota after radiotherapy.The mammalian gastrointestinal tract harbors a highly complex microbial community that comprises hundreds of different types of bacterial cells. The gastrointestinal microbiota plays an important role in the function of the host intestine. Most cancer patients undergoing pelvic irradiation experience side effects such as diarrhea; however, little is currently known about the effects of irradiation on the microorganisms colonizing the mucosal surfaces of the gastrointestinal tract. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of gamma irradiation on the compositions of the large and small intestinal microbiotas. The gut microbiotas in control mice and mice receiving irradiation treatment were characterized by high-throughput sequencing of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene. Irradiation treatment induced significant alterations in the bacterial compositions of the large and small intestines at the genus level. Unexpectedly, irradiation treatment increased the number of operational taxonomic units in the small intestine but not the large intestine. In particular, irradiation treatment increased the level of the genera Alistipes in the large intestine and increased the level of the genus Corynebacterium in the small intestine. By contrast, compared with that in the corresponding control group, the level of the genera Prevotella was lower in the irradiated large intestine, and the level of the genera Alistipes was lower in the irradiated small intestine. Overall, the data presented here reveal the potential microbiological effects of pelvic irradiation on the gastrointestinal tracts of cancer patients.

Temperature-dependent transformation of biogas-producing microbial communities points to the increased importance of hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis under thermophilic operation.Stability of biogas production is highly dependent on the microbial community composition of the bioreactors. This composition is basically determined by the nature of biomass substrate and the physical-chemical parameters of the anaerobic digestion. Operational temperature is a major factor in the determination of the anaerobic degradation process. Next-generation sequencing (NGS)-based metagenomic approach was used to monitor the organization and operation of the microbial community throughout an experiment where mesophilic reactors (37°C) were gradually switched to thermophilic (55°C) operation. Temperature adaptation resulted in a clearly thermophilic community having a generally decreased complexity compared to the mesophilic system. A temporary destabilization of the system was observed, indicating a lag phase in the community development in response to temperature stress. Increased role of hydrogenotrophic methanogens under thermophilic conditions was shown, as well as considerably elevated levels of Fe-hydrogenases and hydrogen producer bacteria were observed in the thermophilic system.

GeoChip-based analysis of microbial community of a combined nitritation-anammox reactor treating anaerobic digestion supernatant.A combined nitritation-anammox reactor was established to treat anaerobic digestion supernatant. The reactor achieved a nitrogen loading rate of 0.5 kg N/(m(3)·d) and total nitrogen removal efficiency of 85% after 140 days' operation. To examine the microbial community responsible for the process, GeoChip 4.0, a high-throughput, microarray-based metagenomic tool, was adopted to measure microbial functional potential under different percentages of digestion supernatant. Intriguingly, our results showed that microbial community composition in a stably functioning bioreactor were significantly different under varying environmental conditions. Functional gene diversities decreased with increasing percentages of digestion supernatant. Genes involved in organic remediation and metal resistance were highly abundant, revealing new metabolic potentials in addition to nitrogen and carbon removal. Compared to the significant decrease of genes involved in denitrification and nitrification caused by inhibition of the digestion supernatant, relative abundances of genes for anammox remained relatively stable. This could be partially attributed to the protection of biofilm, which was vital for the stable performance of nitrogen removal. In addition, nitrogen compounds, C/N ratio and the operation parameters (pH and temperature) were the key variables shaping the microbial community, contributing to a total of 76.64% of the variance of the reactor.

New FeFe-hydrogenase genes identified in a metagenomic fosmid library from a municipal wastewater treatment plant as revealed by high-throughput sequencing.A fosmid metagenomic library was constructed with total community DNA obtained from a municipal wastewater treatment plant (MWWTP), with the aim of identifying new FeFe-hydrogenase genes encoding the enzymes most important for hydrogen metabolism. The dataset generated by pyrosequencing of a fosmid library was mined to identify environmental gene tags (EGTs) assigned to FeFe-hydrogenase. The majority of EGTs representing FeFe-hydrogenase genes were affiliated with the class Clostridia, suggesting that this group is the main hydrogen producer in the MWWTP analyzed. Based on assembled sequences, three FeFe-hydrogenase genes were predicted based on detection of the L2 motif (MPCxxKxxE) in the encoded gene product, confirming true FeFe-hydrogenase sequences. These sequences were used to design specific primers to detect fosmids encoding FeFe-hydrogenase genes predicted from the dataset. Three identified fosmids were completely sequenced. The cloned genomic fragments within these fosmids are closely related to members of the Spirochaetaceae, Bacteroidales and Firmicutes, and their FeFe-hydrogenase sequences are characterized by the structure type M3, which is common to clostridial enzymes. FeFe-hydrogenase sequences found in this study represent hitherto undetected sequences, indicating the high genetic diversity regarding these enzymes in MWWTP. Results suggest that MWWTP have to be considered as reservoirs for new FeFe-hydrogenase genes.

A metagenomic study of the microbial communities in four parallel biogas reactors.Biogas is a renewable energy carrier which is used for heat and power production or, in the form of purified methane, as a vehicle fuel. The formation of methane from organic materials is carried out by a mixed microbial community under anaerobic conditions. However, details about the microbes involved and their function are limited. In this study we compare the metagenomes of four parallel biogas reactors digesting a protein-rich substrate, relate microbiology to biogas performance, and observe differences in these reactors' microbial communities compared to the original inoculum culture.
The biogas process performance during the startup phase of four parallel continuous stirred tank reactors (designated R1, R2, R3, and R4) co-digesting fish waste and cow manure was studied. The microbial composition of the inoculum (day 0) and the four reactors at day 59 was studied and compared using 454 FLX Titanium pyrosequencing. In the inoculum and the reactor samples, the Bacteria Clostridium and Syntrophomonas were highly abundant, and the dominating methanogen was the hydrogenotrophic Methanoculleus. Syntrophic prokaryotes frequently found in biogas reactors with high concentrations of ammonium and volatile fatty acids were detected in all samples. The species Candidatus Cloacimonas acidaminovorans of the candidate phylum Cloacimonetes (WWE1) increased in all reactors and was the dominating bacterium at day 59. In particular, this bacterium showed a very high abundance in R1, which distinguished this reactor significantly from the other reactors in terms of microbial composition. Methane production and the reactor slurry characteristics were monitored in the digestion period. Generally all four reactors operated stably and showed rather similar characteristics. The average methane production in the reactors varied between 0.278 and 0.296 L gVS(-1), with the lowest production in R1.
This study showed that four parallel reactors co-digesting manure and fish waste silage operated stably during a startup phase. Several important Archaea and Bacteria degrading the protein-rich substrate were identified. In particular, microorganisms involved in syntrophic methane production seemed to be important. The detailed characterization of the microbial communities presented in this work may be useful for the operation of biogas plants degrading substrates with high concentrations of proteins.

Gut microbiota, host gene expression, and aging.Novel concepts of disease susceptibility and development suggest an important role of gastrointestinal microbiota and microbial pathogens. They can contribute to physiological systems and disease processes, even outside of the gastrointestinal tract. There is increasing evidence that genetics of the host influence and interact with gut microbiota. Moreover, aging-associated oxidative stress may cause morphologic alterations of bacterial cells, thus influencing the aggressive potential and virulence markers of an anaerobic bacterium and finally the type of interaction with the host. At the same time, microbiota may influence host gene expression and it is becoming apparent that it may occur through the regulation of microRNAs. They are short single-stranded noncoding RNAs that regulate posttranscriptional gene expression by affecting mRNA stability and/or translational repression of their target mRNAs. The introduction of -omics approaches (such as metagenomics, metaproteomics, and metatranscriptomics) in microbiota research will certainly advance our knowledge of this area. This will lead to greatly deepen our understanding of the molecular targets in the homeostatic interaction between the gut microbiota and the host and, thereby, promises to reveal new ways to treat diseases and maintain health.

Dynamics of antibiotic resistance genes and presence of putative pathogens during ambient temperature anaerobic digestion.This study was focused on evaluating the persistency of antimicrobial resistance (AR) genes and putative pathogenic bacteria in an anaerobic digesters operating at mesophilic ambient temperature, in two different year seasons: summer and winter.
Abundance and dynamic of AR genes encoding resistance to macrolides (ermB), aminoglycosides (aphA2) and beta-lactams (blaTEM -1 ) and persistency of potentially pathogenic bacteria in pilot-scale anaerobic digesters were investigated. AR genes were determined in the influent and effluent in both conditions. Overall, after 60 days, reduction was observed for all evaluated genes. However, during the summer, anaerobic digestion was more related to the gene reduction as compared to winter. Persistency of potentially pathogenic bacteria was also evaluated by metagenomic analyses compared to an in-house created database. Clostridium, Acinetobacter and Stenotrophomonas were the most identified.
Overall, considering the mesophilic ambient temperature during anaerobic digestion (summer and winter), a decrease in pathogenic bacteria detection through metagenomic analysis and AR genes is reported. Although the mesophilic anaerobic digestion has been efficient, the results may suggest medically important bacteria and AR genes persistency during the process.
This is the first report to show AR gene dynamics and persistency of potentially pathogenic bacteria through metagenomic approach in cattle manure ambient temperature anaerobic digestion.

Comparison of the microbial communities in solid-state anaerobic digestion (SS-AD) reactors operated at mesophilic and thermophilic temperatures.The microbiomes involved in liquid anaerobic digestion process have been investigated extensively, but the microbiomes underpinning solid-state anaerobic digestion (SS-AD) are poorly understood. In this study, microbiome composition and temporal succession in batch SS-AD reactors, operated at mesophilic or thermophilic temperatures, were investigated using Illumina sequencing of 16S rRNA gene amplicons. A greater microbial richness and evenness were found in the mesophilic than in the thermophilic SS-AD reactors. Firmicutes accounted for 60 and 82 % of the total Bacteria in the mesophilic and in the thermophilic SS-AD reactors, respectively. The genus Methanothermobacter dominated the Archaea in the thermophilic SS-AD reactors, while Methanoculleus predominated in the mesophilic SS-AD reactors. Interestingly, the data suggest syntrophic acetate oxidation coupled with hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis as an important pathway for biogas production during the thermophilic SS-AD. Canonical correspondence analysis (CCA) showed that temperature was the most influential factor in shaping the microbiomes in the SS-AD reactors. Thermotogae showed strong positive correlation with operation temperature, while Fibrobacteres, Lentisphaerae, Spirochaetes, and Tenericutes were positively correlated with daily biogas yield. This study provided new insight into the microbiome that drives SS-AD process, and the findings may help advance understanding of the microbiome in SS-AD reactors and the design and operation of SS-AD systems.

Gene-targeted microfluidic cultivation validated by isolation of a gut bacterium listed in Human Microbiome Project's Most Wanted taxa.This paper describes a microfluidics-based workflow for genetically targeted isolation and cultivation of microorganisms from complex clinical samples. Data sets from high-throughput sequencing suggest the existence of previously unidentified bacterial taxa and functional genes with high biomedical importance. Obtaining isolates of these targets, preferably in pure cultures, is crucial for advancing understanding of microbial genetics and physiology and enabling physical access to microbes for further applications. However, the majority of microbes have not been cultured, due in part to the difficulties of both identifying proper growth conditions and characterizing and isolating each species. We describe a method that enables genetically targeted cultivation of microorganisms through a combination of microfluidics and on- and off-chip assays. This method involves (i) identification of cultivation conditions for microbes using growth substrates available only in small quantities as well as the correction of sampling bias using a "chip wash" technique; and (ii) performing on-chip genetic assays while also preserving live bacterial cells for subsequent scale-up cultivation of desired microbes, by applying recently developed technology to create arrays of individually addressable replica microbial cultures. We validated this targeted approach by cultivating a bacterium, here referred to as isolate microfluidicus 1, from a human cecal biopsy. Isolate microfluidicus 1 is, to our knowledge, the first successful example of targeted cultivation of a microorganism from the high-priority group of the Human Microbiome Project's "Most Wanted" list, and, to our knowledge, the first cultured representative of a previously unidentified genus of the Ruminococcaceae family.

Fate of antibiotic resistance genes in sewage treatment plant revealed by metagenomic approach.Antibiotic resistance has become a serious threat to human health. Sewage treatment plant (STP) is one of the major sources of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) in natural environment. High-throughput sequencing-based metagenomic approach was applied to investigate the broad-spectrum profiles and fate of ARGs in a full scale STP. Totally, 271 ARGs subtypes belonging to 18 ARGs types were identified by the broad scanning of metagenomic analysis. Influent had the highest ARGs abundance, followed by effluent, anaerobic digestion sludge and activated sludge. 78 ARGs subtypes persisted through the biological wastewater and sludge treatment process. The high removal efficiency of 99.82% for total ARGs in wastewater suggested that sewage treatment process is effective in reducing ARGs. But the removal efficiency of ARGs in sludge treatment was not as good as that in sewage treatment. Furthermore, the composition of microbial communities was examined and the correlation between microbial community and ARGs was investigated using redundancy analysis. Significant correlation between 6 genera and the distribution of ARGs were found and 5 of the 6 genera included potential pathogens. This is the first study on the fate of ARGs in STP using metagenomic analysis with high-throughput sequencing and hopefully would enhance our knowledge on fate of ARGs in STP.

Monitoring of thermophilic adaptation of mesophilic anaerobe fermentation of sugar beet pressed pulp.Anaerobe fermentation of sugar beet pressed pulp was investigated in pilot-scale digesters. Thermophilic adaptation of mesophilic culture was monitored using chemical analysis and metagenomic characterization of the sludge. Temperature adaptation was achieved by increasing the temperature gradually (2 °C day(-1)) and by greatly decreasing the OLR. During stable run, the OLR was increased gradually to 11.29 kg VS m(-3)d(-1) and biogas yield was 5% higher in the thermophilic reactor. VFA levels increased in the thermophilic reactor with increased OLR (acetic acid 646 mg L(-1), propionic acid 596 mg L(-1)), then VFA decreased and the operation was manageable beside the relative high tVFA (1300-2000 mg L(-1)). The effect of thermophilic adaptation on the microbial communities was studied using a sequencing-based metagenomic approach. Connections between physico-chemical parameters and populations of bacteria and methanogen archaea were revealed.

Linking microbial community structure, interactions and function in anaerobic digesters using new molecular techniques.Over the last decade there has been a rapid development in culture-independent techniques for exploring microbial communities, which have led to new insights into their structure and function in both natural environments and engineered systems. This review focuses on some of the most important recent advances and their applications to the diverse microbial communities associated with anaerobic digestion. The use of these approaches in combination with complementary imaging techniques, chemical isotope analyses and detailed reactor performance measurements provides a new opportunity to develop a fundamental understanding of how microbial community dynamics, interactions and functionality influence digester efficiency and stability.

Isolation and gut microbiota modulation of antibiotic-resistant probiotics from human feces.Antibiotic-resistant probiotics may be advantageous for antibiotic-induced gut microbiota imbalance. In this article, we aimed to isolate antibiotic-resistant bacteria as potential probiotics. Feces from 3 healthy adults and 2 infants were used to isolate the antibiotic-resistant bacteria. Then we established gut microbiota imbalance mice model by antibiotics treatment and used it to assess the effect of the probiotics. Finally, we identified 8 isolates, and 6 of them were used as probiotics cocktail. Number of anaerobe, lactobacilli, and Bifidobacterium in feces were higher in the probiotic group (9.47±0.35 log10CFU/g, 8.74±0.18 log10CFU/g, 7.24±0.38 log10CFU/g, respectively) compared with model group (P<0.05). Richness and diversity index of probiotic group (19.79±0.29 and 2.95±0.06, respectively) were larger than model group (P<0.05). Diarrhea and mucosal edema had been alleviated during probiotic treatment. Our results validated that bacteriotherapy was available to treat gut microbiota imbalance.

Towards molecular biomarkers for biogas production from lignocellulose-rich substrates.Biogas production from lignocellulose-rich agricultural residues is gaining increasingly importance in sustainable energy production. Hydrolysis/acidogenesis (H/A) of lignocellulose as the initial rate-limiting step deserves particular optimization. A mixture of straw/hay was methanized applying two-phase digester systems with an initial H/A reactor and a one-stage system at different, meso- and thermophilic temperatures. H/A was intensified with increasing pH values and increasing temperature. H/A fermenters, however, were prone to switch to methanogenic systems at these conditions. Substrate turnover was accelerated in the bi-phasic process but did not reach the methanation efficiency of the single-stage digestion. There was no indication that two different cellulolytic inocula could establish in the given process. Bacterial communities were analyzed applying conventional amplicon clone sequencing targeting the hypervariable 16S rRNA gene region V6-V8 and by metagenome analyses applying direct DNA pyrosequencing without a PCR step. Corresponding results suggested that PCR did not introduce a bias but offered better phylogenetic resolution. Certain Clostridium IV and Prevotella members were most abundant in the H/A system operated at 38 °C, certain Clostridium III and Lachnospiraceae bacteria in the 45 °C, and certain Clostridium IV and Thermohydrogenium/Thermoanaerobacterium members in the 55 °C H/A system. Clostridium III representatives, Lachnospiraceae and Thermotogae dominated in the thermophilic single-stage system, in which also a higher portion of known syntrophic acetate oxidizers was found. Specific (RT-)qPCR systems were designed and applied for the most significant and abundant populations to assess their activity in the different digestion systems. The RT-qPCR results agreed with the DNA based community profiles obtained at the different temperatures. Up to 10(12) 16S rRNA copies mL(-1) were determined in H/A fermenters with prevalence of rRNA of a Ruminococcaceae subgroup. Besides, Thermohydrogenium/Thermoanaerobacterium rRNA prevailed at thermophilic and Prevotellaceae rRNA at mesophilic conditions. The developed (RT)-qPCR systems can be used as biomarkers to optimize biogas production from straw/hay and possibly other lignocellulosic substrates.

Reactor performance of a 750 m(3) anaerobic digestion plant: varied substrate input conditions impacting methanogenic community.A 750 m(3) anaerobic digester was studied over a half year period including a shift from good reactor performance to a reduced one. Various abiotic parameters like volatile fatty acids (VFA) (formic-, acetic-, propionic-, (iso-)butyric-, (iso-)valeric-, lactic acid), total C, total N, NH4 -N, and total proteins, as well as the organic matter content and dry mass were determined. In addition several process parameters such as temperature, pH, retention time and input of substrate and the concentrations of CH4, H2, CO2 and H2S within the reactor were monitored continuously. The present study aimed at the investigation of the abundance of acetogens and total cell numbers and the microbial methanogenic community as derived from PCR-dHPLC analysis in order to put it into context with the determined abiotic parameters. An influence of substrate quantity on the efficiency of the anaerobic digestion process was found as well as a shift from a hydrogenotrophic in times of good reactor performance towards an acetoclastic dominated methanogenic community in times of reduced reactor performance. After the change in substrate conditions it took the methano-archaeal community about 5-6 weeks to be affected but then changes occurred quickly.

CopyRighter: a rapid tool for improving the accuracy of microbial community profiles through lineage-specific gene copy number correction.Culture-independent molecular surveys targeting conserved marker genes, most notably 16S rRNA, to assess microbial diversity remain semi-quantitative due to variations in the number of gene copies between species.
Based on 2,900 sequenced reference genomes, we show that 16S rRNA gene copy number (GCN) is strongly linked to microbial phylogenetic taxonomy, potentially under-representing Archaea in amplicon microbial profiles. Using this relationship, we inferred the GCN of all bacterial and archaeal lineages in the Greengenes database within a phylogenetic framework. We created CopyRighter, new software which uses these estimates to correct 16S rRNA amplicon microbial profiles and associated quantitative (q)PCR total abundance. CopyRighter parses microbial profiles and, because GCN estimates are pre-computed for all taxa in the reference taxonomy, rapidly corrects GCN bias. Software validation with in silico and in vitro mock communities indicated that GCN correction results in more accurate estimates of microbial relative abundance and improves the agreement between metagenomic and amplicon profiles. Analyses of human-associated and anaerobic digester microbiomes illustrate that correction makes tangible changes to estimates of qPCR total abundance, α and β diversity, and can significantly change biological interpretation. For example, human gut microbiomes from twins were reclassified into three rather than two enterotypes after GCN correction.
The CopyRighter bioinformatic tools permits rapid correction of GCN in microbial surveys, resulting in improved estimates of microbial abundance, α and β diversity.

Metagenomic analysis of sludge from full-scale anaerobic digesters operated in municipal wastewater treatment plants.This study applied Illumina high-throughput sequencing to explore the microbial communities and functions in anaerobic digestion sludge (ADS) from two wastewater treatment plants based on a metagenomic view. Taxonomic analysis using SILVA SSU database indicated that Proteobacteria (9.52-13.50 %), Bacteroidetes (7.18 %-10.65 %) and Firmicutes (7.53 %-9.46 %) were the most abundant phyla in the ADS. Differences of microbial communities between the two types of ADS were identified. Genera of Methanosaeta and Methanosarcina were the major methanogens. Functional analysis by SEED subsystems showed that the basic metabolic functions of metagenomes in the four ADS samples had no significant difference among them, but they were different from other microbial communities from activated sludge, human faeces, ocean and soil. Abundances of genes in methanogenesis pathway were also quantified using a methanogenesis genes database extracted from KEGG. Results showed that acetotrophic was the major methanogenic pathway in the anaerobic sludge digestion.

Multiple approaches to characterize the microbial community in a thermophilic anaerobic digester running on swine manure: a case study.In this study, the first survey of microbial community in thermophilic anaerobic digester using swine manure as sole feedstock was performed by multiple approaches including denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), clone library and pyrosequencing techniques. The integrated analysis of 21 DGGE bands, 126 clones and 8506 pyrosequencing read sequences revealed that Clostridia from the phylum Firmicutes account for the most dominant Bacteria. In addition, our analysis also identified additional taxa that were missed by the previous researches, including members of the bacterial phyla Synergistetes, Planctomycetes, Armatimonadetes, Chloroflexi and Nitrospira which might also play a role in thermophilic anaerobic digester. Most archaeal 16S rRNA sequences could be assigned to the order Methanobacteriales instead of Methanomicrobiales comparing to previous studies. In addition, this study reported that the member of Methanothermobacter genus was firstly found in thermophilic anaerobic digester.

Butyric acid fermentation of sodium hydroxide pretreated rice straw with undefined mixed culture.This study describes an alternative mixed culture fermentation technology to anaerobically convert lignocellulosic biomass into butyric acid, a valuable product with wide application, without supplementary cellulolytic enzymes. Rice straw was soaked in 1% NaOH solution to increase digestibility. Among the tested pretreatment conditions, soaking rice straw at 50°C for 72 h removed ~66% of the lignin, but retained ~84% of the cellulose and ~71% of the hemicellulose. By using an undefined cellulose-degrading butyrate-producing microbial community as butyric acid producer in batch fermentation, about 6 g/l of butyric acid was produced from the pretreated rice straw, which accounted for ~76% of the total volatile fatty acids. In the repeated-batch operation, the butyric acid production declined batch by batch, which was most possibly caused by the shift of microbial community structure monitored by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. In this study, batch operation was observed to be more suitable for butyric acid production.

Analysis of alteration of gut microbial population under the exposure of graded hyperbaric pressures: application of metagenomic approach.Gastroenterological disorders are very common at hyperbaric conditions. The present study was conducted to find out the impact of gut flora on the gastrointestinal disorders created at such environmental circumstances. For this, male albino rat were exposed to graded hyperbaric pressures (915 and 1277 mmHg) and large intestinal content was examined for microbial composition using culture based and PCR-DGGE tools. After 30 day exposure, total aerobes (38.54 and 375.57 folds, 1.35 and 1.58 gdi) and E. coli (126.05 and 873.23 folds, 1.31 and 1.44 gdi) were increased whereas total anaerobes (7.01 x 10(4) and 8.84 x 10(3) folds, -1.56 and -1.39 gdi), Enterobacter spp. (-2.45 and -1.00 gdi) and Clostridium perfringens (12.88 and 54.16 folds, -1.38 and -1.75 gdi) were decreased significantly in respect to control after exposure of simulated hyperbaric pressures like at 915 and 1277 mmHg, respectively. Metagenomics study revealed an overall reduction in total microbial profile was noted than control at higher level hyperbaric pressure, i.e., 1277 mmHg air pressure for highest duration of exposure. Though, some new bands also appeared which indicated the expansion of dormant or new microbiota, Variation in the numbers of these newly dominated bacteria was correlated to dose and duration of hyperbaric treatment. The histological results clearly indicated that hyperbaric environment induced severe inflammation in the mucosal and submucosal layer of large intestine. Thus, the result suggest that hyperbaric pressure is an important exogenous factor that strongly modulated the intestinal morphology and microbial ecology, and induced several gastrointestinal ailments during hyperbarism.

Sample prefractionation with liquid isoelectric focusing enables in depth microbial metaproteome analysis of mesophilic and thermophilic biogas plants.Biogas production from energy crops and biodegradable waste is one of the major sources for renewable energies in Germany. Within a biogas plant (BGP) a complex microbial community converts biomass to biogas. Unfortunately, disturbances of the biogas process occur occasionally and cause economic losses of varying extent. Besides technical failures the microbial community itself is commonly assumed as a reason for process instability. To improve the performance and efficiency of BGP, a deeper knowledge of the composition and the metabolic state of the microbial community is required and biomarkers for monitoring of process deviations or even the prediction of process failures have to be identified. Previous work based on 2D-electrophoresis demonstrated that the analysis of the metaproteome is well suited to provide insights into the apparent metabolism of the microbial communities. Using SDS-PAGE with subsequent mass spectrometry, stable protein patterns were evaluated for a number of anaerobic digesters. Furthermore, it was shown that severe changes in process parameters such as acidification resulted in significant modifications of the metaproteome. Monitoring of changing protein patterns derived from anaerobic digesters, however, is still a challenge due to the high complexity of the metaproteome. In this study, different combinations of separation techniques to reduce the complexity of proteomic BGP samples were compared with respect to the subsequent identification of proteins by tandem mass spectrometry (MS/MS): (i) 1D: proteins were tryptically digested and the resulting peptides were separated by reversed phase chromatography prior to MS/MS. (ii) 2D: proteins were separated by GeLC-MS/MS according to proteins molecular weights before tryptic digestion, (iii) 3D: proteins were separated by gel-free fractionation using isoelectric focusing (IEF) conducted before GeLC-MS/MS. For this study, a comparison of two anaerobic digesters operated at mesophilic and at thermophilic conditions was conducted. The addition of further separation dimensions before protein identification increased the number of identified proteins. On the other hand additional fractionation steps increased the experimental work load and the time required for LC-MS/MS measurement. The high resolution of the 3D-approach enabled the detection of approximately 750 to 1650 proteins covering the main pathways of hydrolysis, acidogenesis, acetogenesis and methanogenesis. Methanosarcinales dominated in the mesophilic BGP, whereas Methanomicrobiales were highly abundant in the thermophilic BGP. Pathway analysis confirmed the taxonomic results and revealed that the acetoclastic methanogenesis occurred preferentially at mesophilic conditions, whereas exclusively hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis was detected in thermophilic BGP. However, for the identification of process biomarkers by comprehensive screening of BGP it will be indispensable to find a balance between the experimental efforts and analytical resolution.

Catechol 2,3-dioxygenase and other meta-cleavage catabolic pathway genes in the 'anaerobic' termite gut spirochete Treponema primitia.Microorganisms have evolved a spectacular diversity of metabolisms, some of which allow them to overcome environmental constraints, utilize abundant but inaccessible resources and drive nutrient cycling in various ecosystems. The termite hindgut microbial community is optimized to metabolize wood, and in recent years, the in situ physiological and ecological functions of community members have been researched. Spirochetes are abundant in the termite gut, and herein, putative aromatic meta-cleavage pathway genes typical of aerobic pseudomonads were located in genomes of homoacetogenic termite hindgut 'anaerobes', Treponema primitia str. ZAS-1 and ZAS-2. Phylogenetic analyses suggest the T. primitia catechol 2,3-dioxygenase and several other essential meta-pathway genes were acquired from an α-proteobacterium in the distant past to augment several genes T. primitia acquired from anaerobic firmicutes that do not directly catabolize aromatics but can contribute to the final pathway steps. Further, transcripts for each meta-pathway gene were expressed in strictly anaerobic cultures of T. primitia str. ZAS-2 indicative of constitutive pathway expression. Also, the addition of catechol + O(2) to T. primitia liquid cultures resulted in the transient accumulation of trace amounts of the yellow ring cleavage product, hydroxymuconic semialdehyde. This is the first evidence of aromatic ring cleavage in the phylum (division) Spirochetes. Results also support a possible role for T. primitia in termite hindgut O(2) /lignin aromatic monomer metabolism. Potential O(2) -dependent yet nonrespiratory microbial metabolisms have heretofore been overlooked and warrant further investigation. These metabolisms could describe the degradation of plant-derived and other aromatics in microoxic environments and contribute significantly to carbon turnover.

Efficiency of RNA extraction from selected bacteria in the context of biogas production and metatranscriptomics.Understanding the microbial population in anaerobic digestion is an essential task to increase efficient substrate use and process stability. The metabolic state, represented e.g. by the transcriptome, of a fermenting system can help to find markers for monitoring industrial biogas production to prevent failures or to model the whole process. Advances in next-generation sequencing make transcriptomes accessible for large-scale analyses. In order to analyze the metatranscriptome of a mixed-species sample, isolation of high-quality RNA is the first step. However, different extraction methods may yield different efficiencies in different species. Especially in mixed-species environmental samples, unbiased isolation of transcripts is important for meaningful conclusions. We applied five different RNA-extraction protocols to nine taxonomic diverse bacterial species. Chosen methods are based on various lysis and extraction principles. We found that the extraction efficiency of different methods depends strongly on the target organism. RNA isolation of gram-positive bacteria was characterized by low yield whilst from gram-negative species higher concentrations can be obtained. Transferring our results to mixed-species investigations, such as metatranscriptomics with biofilms or biogas plants, leads to the conclusion that particular microorganisms might be over- or underrepresented depending on the method applied. Special care must be taken when using such metatranscriptomics data for, e.g. process modeling.

Comparative metagenomic analysis of bacterial populations in three full-scale mesophilic anaerobic manure digesters.While the use of anaerobic digestion to generate methane as a source of bioenergy is increasing worldwide, our knowledge of the microbial communities that perform biomethanation is very limited. Using next-generation sequencing, bacterial population profiles were determined in three full-scale mesophilic anaerobic digesters operated on dairy farms in the state of Vermont (USA). To our knowledge, this is the first report of a metagenomic analysis on the bacterial population of anaerobic digesters using dairy manure as their main substrate. A total of 20,366 non-chimeric sequence reads, covering the V1-V2 hypervariable regions of the bacterial 16S rRNA gene, were assigned to 2,176 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) at a genetic distance cutoff value of 5 %. Based on their limited sequence identity to validly characterized species, the majority of OTUs identified in our study likely represented novel bacterial species. Using a naïve Bayesian classifier, 1,624 anaerobic digester OTUs could be assigned to 16 bacterial phyla, while 552 OTUs could not be classified and may belong to novel bacterial taxonomic groups that have yet to be described. Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and Chloroflexi were the most highly represented bacteria overall, with Bacteroidetes and Chloroflexi showing the least and the most variation in abundance between digesters, respectively. All digesters shared 132 OTUs, which as a "core" group represented 65.4 to 70.6 % of sequences in individual digesters. Our results show that bacterial populations from microbial communities of anaerobic manure digesters can display high levels of diversity despite sharing a common core substrate.

Intestinal dysbiosis and depletion of butyrogenic bacteria in Clostridium difficile infection and nosocomial diarrhea.Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) causes nearly half a million cases of diarrhea and colitis in the United States each year. Although the importance of the gut microbiota in C. difficile pathogenesis is well recognized, components of the human gut flora critical for colonization resistance are not known. Culture-independent high-density Roche 454 pyrosequencing was used to survey the distal gut microbiota for 39 individuals with CDI, 36 subjects with C. difficile-negative nosocomial diarrhea (CDN), and 40 healthy control subjects. A total of 526,071 partial 16S rRNA sequence reads of the V1 to V3 regions were aligned with 16S databases, identifying 3,531 bacterial phylotypes from 115 fecal samples. Genomic analysis revealed significant alterations of organism lineages in both the CDI and CDN groups, which were accompanied by marked decreases in microbial diversity and species richness driven primarily by a paucity of phylotypes within the Firmicutes phylum. Normally abundant gut commensal organisms, including the Ruminococcaceae and Lachnospiraceae families and butyrate-producing C2 to C4 anaerobic fermenters, were significantly depleted in the CDI and CDN groups. These data demonstrate associations between the depletion of Ruminococcaceae, Lachnospiraceae, and butyrogenic bacteria in the gut microbiota and nosocomial diarrhea, including C. difficile infection. Mechanistic studies focusing on the functional roles of these organisms in diarrheal diseases and resistance against C. difficile colonization are warranted.

Metagenome and metaproteome analyses of microbial communities in mesophilic biogas-producing anaerobic batch fermentations indicate concerted plant carbohydrate degradation.Microbial communities in biogas batch fermentations, using straw and hay as co-substrates, were analyzed at the gene and protein level by metagenomic and metaproteomic approaches. The analysis of metagenomic data revealed that the Clostridiales and Bacteroidales orders were prevalent in the community. However, the number of sequences assigned to the Clostridiales order decreased during fermentation, whereas the number of sequences assigned to the Bacteroidales order increased. In addition, changes at the functional level were monitored and the metaproteomic analyses detected transporter proteins and flagellins, which were expressed mainly by members of the Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes phyla. A high number of sugar transporters, expressed by members of the Bacteroidetes, proved their potential to take up various glycans efficiently. Metagenome data also showed that methanogenic organisms represented less than 4% of the community, while 20-30% of the identified proteins were of archeal origin. These data suggested that methanogens were disproportionally active. In conclusion, the community studied was capable of digesting the recalcitrant co-substrate. Members of the Firmicutes phylum seemed to be the main degraders of cellulose, even though expression of only a few glycoside hydrolases was detected. The Bacteroidetes phylum expressed a high number of sugar transporters and seemed to specialize in the digestion of other polysaccharides. Finally, it was found that key enzymes of methanogenesis were expressed in high quantities, indicating the high metabolic activity of methanogens, although they only represented a minor group within the microbial community.

Metagenomic analysis of methanogen populations in three full-scale mesophilic anaerobic manure digesters operated on dairy farms in Vermont, USA.The microbial communities that produce biogas as a result of anaerobic digestion of manure remain poorly understood. Using next-generation sequencing, methanogen populations were investigated in three full scale mesophilic anaerobic digesters operated on dairy farms. A combined 50 246 non-chimeric sequence reads covering the V1-V3 hypervariable regions of the methanogen 16S rRNA gene were assigned to 307 species-level operational taxonomic units (OTUs). The Blue Spruce Farms (BSF) and Green Mountain Dairy (GMD) anaerobic digesters were found to have nearly identical methanogen profiles, with the overwhelming predominance of OTU 1 (98.5% and 99.7%, respectively), which showed 99.2% sequence identity to Methanosarcina thermophila. In contrast, methanogens from the Chaput Family Farms (CFF) anaerobic digester were more diverse, with five major OTUs belonging to four distinct phylogenetic groups (Methanomicrobiales, Methanosarcinales, Methanoplasmatales, and Methanobacteriales). Differences in management practices and years of operation were hypothesized as potential factors responsible for differences in the methanogen profiles.

Detailed analysis of metagenome datasets obtained from biogas-producing microbial communities residing in biogas reactors does not indicate the presence of putative pathogenic microorganisms.In recent years biogas plants in Germany have been supposed to be involved in amplification and dissemination of pathogenic bacteria causing severe infections in humans and animals. In particular, biogas plants are discussed to contribute to the spreading of Escherichia coli infections in humans or chronic botulism in cattle caused by Clostridium botulinum. Metagenome datasets of microbial communities from an agricultural biogas plant as well as from anaerobic lab-scale digesters operating at different temperatures and conditions were analyzed for the presence of putative pathogenic bacteria and virulence determinants by various bioinformatic approaches.
All datasets featured a low abundance of reads that were taxonomically assigned to the genus Escherichia or further selected genera comprising pathogenic species. Higher numbers of reads were taxonomically assigned to the genus Clostridium. However, only very few sequences were predicted to originate from pathogenic clostridial species. Moreover, mapping of metagenome reads to complete genome sequences of selected pathogenic bacteria revealed that not the pathogenic species itself, but only species that are more or less related to pathogenic ones are present in the fermentation samples analyzed. Likewise, known virulence determinants could hardly be detected. Only a marginal number of reads showed similarity to sequences described in the Microbial Virulence Database MvirDB such as those encoding protein toxins, virulence proteins or antibiotic resistance determinants.
Findings of this first study of metagenomic sequence reads of biogas producing microbial communities suggest that the risk of dissemination of pathogenic bacteria by application of digestates from biogas fermentations as fertilizers is low, because obtained results do not indicate the presence of putative pathogenic microorganisms in the samples analyzed.

Towards a metagenomic understanding on enhanced biomethane production from waste activated sludge after pH 10 pretreatment.Understanding the effects of pretreatment on anaerobic digestion of sludge waste from wastewater treatment plants is becoming increasingly important, as impetus moves towards the utilization of sludge for renewable energy production. Although the field of sludge pretreatment has progressed significantly over the past decade, critical questions concerning the underlying microbial interactions remain unanswered. In this study, a metagenomic approach was adopted to investigate the microbial composition and gene content contributing to enhanced biogas production from sludge subjected to a novel pretreatment method (maintaining pH at 10 for 8 days) compared to other documented methods (ultrasonic, thermal and thermal-alkaline).
Our results showed that pretreated sludge attained a maximum methane yield approximately 4-fold higher than that of the blank un-pretreated sludge set-up at day 17. Both the microbial and metabolic consortium shifted extensively towards enhanced biodegradation subsequent to pretreatment, providing insight for the enhanced methane yield. The prevalence of Methanosaeta thermophila and Methanothermobacter thermautotrophicus, together with the functional affiliation of enzymes-encoding genes suggested an acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis pathway. Additionally, an alternative enzymology in Methanosaeta was observed.
This study is the first to provide a microbiological understanding of improved biogas production subsequent to a novel waste sludge pretreatment method. The knowledge garnered will assist the design of more efficient pretreatment methods for biogas production in the future.

The dynamics of gut-associated microbial communities during inflammation.Our intestine is host to a large microbial community (microbiota) that educates the immune system and confers niche protection. Profiling of the gut-associated microbial community reveals a dominance of obligate anaerobic bacteria in healthy individuals. However, intestinal inflammation is associated with a disturbance of the microbiota-known as dysbiosis-that often includes an increased prevalence of facultative anaerobic bacteria. This group contains potentially harmful bacterial species, the bloom of which can further exacerbate inflammation. Here, we review the mechanisms that generate changes in the microbial community structure during inflammation. One emerging concept is that electron acceptors generated as by-products of the host inflammatory response feed facultative anaerobic bacteria selectively, thereby increasing their prevalence within the community. This new paradigm has broad implications for understanding dysbiosis during gut inflammation and identifies potential targets for intervention strategies.

Effects of antibiotics on bacterial species composition and metabolic activities in chemostats containing defined populations of human gut microorganisms.The composition and metabolic activities of the human colonic microbiota are modulated by a number of external factors, including diet and antibiotic therapy. Changes in the structure and metabolism of the gut microbiota may have long-term consequences for host health. The large intestine harbors a complex microbial ecosystem comprising several hundreds of different bacterial species, which complicates investigations on intestinal physiology and ecology. To facilitate such studies, a highly simplified microbiota consisting of 14 anaerobic and facultatively anaerobic organisms (Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, Bacteroides vulgatus, Bifidobacterium longum, Bifidobacterium infantis, Bifidobacterium pseudolongum, Bifidobacterium adolescentis, Clostridium butyricum, C. perfringens, C. bifermentans, C. innocuum, Escherichia coli, Enterococcus faecalis, Enterococcus faecium, Lactobacillus acidophilus) was used in this investigation. Ampicillin [9.2 μg (ml culture)(-1)] was added to two chemostats operated at different dilution rates (D; 0.10 h(-1) and 0.21 h(-1)), and metronidazole [76.9 μg (ml culture)(-1)] was added to a third vessel (D = 0.21 h(-1)). Perturbations in bacterial physiology and metabolism were sampled over a 48-h period. Lactobacillus acidophilus and C. bifermentans populations did not establish in the fermentors under the imposed growth conditions. Ampicillin resulted in substantial reductions in bacteroides and C. perfringens populations at both dilution rates. Metronidazole strongly affected bacteroides communities but had no effect on bifidobacterial communities. The bacteriostatic effect of ampicillin on bifidobacterial species was growth rate dependent. Several metabolic activities were affected by antibiotic addition, including fermentation product formation and enzyme synthesis. The growth of antibiotic-resistant bifidobacteria in the large bowel may enable them to occupy ecological niches left vacant after antibiotic administration, preventing colonization by pathogenic species.

A pyrosequencing-based metagenomic study of methane-producing microbial community in solid-state biogas reactor.A solid-state anaerobic digestion method is used to produce biogas from various solid wastes in China but the efficiency of methane production requires constant improvement. The diversity and abundance of relevant microorganisms play important roles in methanogenesis of biomass. The next-generation high-throughput pyrosequencing platform (Roche/454 GS FLX Titanium) provides a powerful tool for the discovery of novel microbes within the biogas-generating microbial communities.
To improve the power of our metagenomic analysis, we first evaluated five different protocols for extracting total DNA from biogas-producing mesophilic solid-state fermentation materials and then chose two high-quality protocols for a full-scale analysis. The characterization of both sequencing reads and assembled contigs revealed that the most prevalent microbes of the fermentation materials are derived from Clostridiales (Firmicutes), which contribute to degrading both protein and cellulose. Other important bacterial species for decomposing fat and carbohydrate are Bacilli, Gammaproteobacteria, and Bacteroidetes (belonging to Firmicutes, Proteobacteria, and Bacteroidetes, respectively). The dominant bacterial species are from six genera: Clostridium, Aminobacterium, Psychrobacter, Anaerococcus, Syntrophomonas, and Bacteroides. Among them, abundant Psychrobacter species, which produce low temperature-adaptive lipases, and Anaerococcus species, which have weak fermentation capabilities, were identified for the first time in biogas fermentation. Archaea, represented by genera Methanosarcina, Methanosaeta and Methanoculleus of Euryarchaeota, constitute only a small fraction of the entire microbial community. The most abundant archaeal species include Methanosarcina barkeri fusaro, Methanoculleus marisnigri JR1, and Methanosaeta theromphila, and all are involved in both acetotrophic and hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis.
The identification of new bacterial genera and species involved in biogas production provides insights into novel designs of solid-state fermentation under mesophilic or low-temperature conditions.

Cellulose digestion and metabolism induced biocatalytic transitions in anaerobic microbial ecosystems.Anaerobic digestion of highly polymerized biomass by microbial communities present in diverse microbial ecosystems is an indispensable metabolic process for biogeochemical cycling in nature and for industrial activities required to maintain a sustainable society. Therefore, the evaluation of the complicated microbial metabolomics presents a significant challenge. We here describe a comprehensive strategy for characterizing the degradation of highly crystallized bacterial cellulose (BC) that is accompanied by metabolite production for identifying the responsible biocatalysts, including microorganisms and their metabolic functions. To this end, we employed two-dimensional solid- and one-dimensional solution-state nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) profiling combined with a metagenomic approach using stable isotope labeling. The key components of biocatalytic reactions determined using a metagenomic approach were correlated with cellulose degradation and metabolic products. The results indicate that BC degradation was mediated by cellulases that contain carbohydrate-binding modules and that belong to structural type A. The degradation reactions induced the metabolic dynamics of the microbial community and produced organic compounds, such as acetic acid and propionic acid, mainly metabolized by clostridial species. This combinatorial, functional and structural metagenomic approach is useful for the comprehensive characterization of biomass degradation, metabolic dynamics and their key components in diverse ecosystems.

Gene sets for utilization of primary and secondary nutrition supplies in the distal gut of endangered Iberian lynx.Recent studies have indicated the existence of an extensive trans-genomic trans-mural co-metabolism between gut microbes and animal hosts that is diet-, host phylogeny- and provenance-influenced. Here, we analyzed the biodiversity at the level of small subunit rRNA gene sequence and the metabolic composition of 18 Mbp of consensus metagenome sequences and activity characteristics of bacterial intra-cellular extracts, in wild Iberian lynx (Lynx pardinus) fecal samples. Bacterial signatures (14.43% of all of the Firmicutes reads and 6.36% of total reads) related to the uncultured anaerobic commensals Anaeroplasma spp., which are typically found in ovine and bovine rumen, were first identified. The lynx gut was further characterized by an over-representation of 'presumptive' aquaporin aqpZ genes and genes encoding 'active' lysosomal-like digestive enzymes that are possibly needed to acquire glycerol, sugars and amino acids from glycoproteins, glyco(amino)lipids, glyco(amino)glycans and nucleoside diphosphate sugars. Lynx gut was highly enriched (28% of the total glycosidases) in genes encoding α-amylase and related enzymes, although it exhibited low rate of enzymatic activity indicative of starch degradation. The preponderance of β-xylosidase activity in protein extracts further suggests lynx gut microbes being most active for the metabolism of β-xylose containing plant N-glycans, although β-xylosidases sequences constituted only 1.5% of total glycosidases. These collective and unique bacterial, genetic and enzymatic activity signatures suggest that the wild lynx gut microbiota not only harbors gene sets underpinning sugar uptake from primary animal tissues (with the monotypic dietary profile of the wild lynx consisting of 80-100% wild rabbits) but also for the hydrolysis of prey-derived plant biomass. Although, the present investigation corresponds to a single sample and some of the statements should be considered qualitative, the data most likely suggests a tighter, more coordinated and complex evolutionary and nutritional ecology scenario of carnivore gut microbial communities than has been previously assumed.

Rhinosinusitis and asthma-microbiome and new perspectives.Microbiome is one of the new perspectives in human health research, including airway diseases. There are several publications about the relationship of the microbiome and allergic diseases. Although pathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) as well as its relationship with asthma has been widely investigated, the relationship of the microbiome and CRS is not yet well known.
The relationship between the hygiene hypothesis and microorganisms inside the human body and in the environment around it has been clearly shown. Furthermore, several researchers have reported that the microorganisms in the gut play a major role in regulating the immune cells that are of relevance to asthma and allergic diseases, such as Th1, Th2, Th17, Treg and dendritic cells as well as Toll-like receptors. Reduced contact of people with natural environmental features and biodiversity may adversely affect the human commensal microbiota and its immunomodulatory capacity.Some studies have shown a close relationship between CRS and Staphylococcus aureus, anaerobes and so on in the nasal cavity or paranasal sinuses, although the relationship between CRS and microorganisms in the gut has not been demonstrated.
In this review, we summarized about the microbiome, mainly in asthma and allergic diseases. The relationship between asthma and CRS has been clearly shown, and in particular, CRS with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) has been considered to be Th2-dominant. Studies examining environmental microbial exposure in populations at risk for CRS are necessary to improve our understanding of the role this factor plays in disease development.

Gut microbiota drives metabolic disease in immunologically altered mice.The mammalian intestine harbors trillions of microbes collectively known as the microbiota, which can be viewed as an anaerobic metabolic organ that benefits the host in a number of ways. The homeostasis of this large microbial biomass is a prerequisite to maintaining host health by maximizing symbiotic interrelations and minimizing the risk of living in a close relationship. The cooperation between the innate and adaptive immune systems of the host maintains homeostasis of the microbiota. The dysregulation/alteration of microbiota in various immunodeficiency states including both innate and adaptive deficiency results in metabolic disease. This review examines the influence of microbiota on host metabolic health in immunologically altered mice. Accumulated data from a variety of immune-deficient murine models indicate that altered microbiota can play a key role in origination of metabolic diseases through the following potential mechanisms: (i) increasing calorie extraction resulting in adiposity, (ii) inducing low-grade chronic inflammation in the gut directly or increasing systemic loads of microbial ligands via leaky guts, (iii) generating toxic metabolites from dietary components, and (iv) inducing a switch from pro-metabolic to pro-immune phenotype that drives malabsorption of lipids resulting in muscle wastage and weight loss-particularly upon states of adaptive immune deficiency. Further, these murine models demonstrate that altered microbiota is not purely a consequence of metabolic disease but plays a key role in driving this disorder.

The rumen plasmidome: A genetic communication hub for the rumen microbiome.Plasmids are episomally replicating genetic elements which carry backbone genes that are important for their replication and maintenance within their host, and accessory genes that might confer an advantage to their host in its ecological niche. As such, they are often perceived as a powerful evolutionary force, which horizontally introduces new traits into bacterial cells and genomes. In our recent publication "Insight into the rumen plasmidome" we characterized the metagenomic plasmid population of the bovine rumen microbial ecological niche. The rumen is the first compartment of the digestive tract of ruminants; it functions as a pre-gastric anaerobic fermentation chamber, where plant fibers are degraded and converted into chemical compounds which are subsequently absorbed and digested by the animal.

The microbiome in wound repair and tissue fibrosis.Bacterial colonization occurs in all wounds, chronic or acute, and the break in epithelium integrity that defines a wound impairs the forces that shape and constrain the microbiome at that site. This review highlights the interactions between bacterial communities in the wound and the ultimate resolution of the wound or development of fibrotic lesions. Chronic wounds support complex microbial communities comprising a wide variety of bacterial phyla, genera, and species, including some fastidious anaerobic bacteria not identified using culture-based methods. Thus, the complexity of bacterial communities in wounds has historically been underestimated. There are a number of intriguing possibilities to explain these results that may also provide novel insights into changes and adaptation of bacterial metabolic networks in inflamed and wounded mucosa, including the critical role of biofilm formation. It is well accepted that the heightened state of activation of host cells in a wound that is driven by the microbiota can certainly lead to detrimental effects on wound regeneration, but the microbiota of the wound may also have beneficial effects on wound healing. Studies in experimental systems have clearly demonstrated a beneficial effect for members of the gut microbiota on regulation of systemic inflammation, which could also impact wound healing at sites outside the gastrointestinal tract. The utilization of culture-independent microbiology to characterize the microbiome of wounds and surrounding mucosa has raised many intriguing questions regarding previously held notions about the cause and effect relationships between bacterial colonization and wound repair and mechanisms involved in this symbiotic relationship.

Geographical and ecological stability of the symbiotic mid-gut microbiota in European firebugs, Pyrrhocoris apterus (Hemiptera, Pyrrhocoridae).Symbiotic bacteria often play an essential nutritional role for insects, thereby allowing them to exploit novel food sources and expand into otherwise inaccessible ecological niches. Although many insects are inhabited by complex microbial communities, most studies on insect mutualists so far have focused on single endosymbionts and their interactions with the host. Here, we provide a comprehensive characterization of the gut microbiota of the red firebug (Pyrrhocoris apterus, Hemiptera, Pyrrhocoridae), a model organism for physiological and endocrinological research. A combination of several culture-independent techniques (454 pyrosequencing, quantitative PCR and cloning/sequencing) revealed a diverse community of likely transient bacterial taxa in the mid-gut regions M1, M2 and M4. However, the completely anoxic M3 region harboured a distinct microbiota consisting of facultative and obligate anaerobes including Actinobacteria (Coriobacterium glomerans and Gordonibacter sp.), Firmicutes (Clostri-dium sp. and Lactococcus lactis) and Proteobacteria (Klebsiella sp. and a previously undescribed Rickettsiales bacterium). Characterization of the M3 microbiota in different life stages of P. apterus indicated that the symbiotic bacterial community is vertically transmitted and becomes well defined between the second and third nymphal instar, which coincides with the initiation of feeding. Comparing the mid-gut M3 microbial communities of P. apterus individuals from five different populations and after feeding on three different diets revealed that the community composition is qualitatively and quantitatively very stable, with the six predominant taxa being consistently abundant. Our findings suggest that the firebug mid-gut microbiota constitutes a functionally important and possibly coevolved symbiotic community.

DGGE analysis of buffalo manure eubacteria for hydrogen production: effect of pH, temperature and pretreatments.Buffalo dung is a low-cost substrate with plenty of carbohydrates, an optimal carbon/nitrogen ratio, and a rich microbial flora, and could become a valuable source of biogas. Therefore, in the present study we compared the type and amount of specific eubacteria to the different configurations of pH, temperature and thermal pretreatment after fermentation in batch reactors in order to understand the suitability of buffalo manure for hydrogen production. The phylogenetic structure of the microbial community in fermentation samples was studied using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis to generate fingerprints of 16S rRNA genes. The sequences analysis revealed abundance of the phyla Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes, and in particular of the order Clostridiales. Very active hydrogen producing bacteria belonging to Clostridium cellulosi species were identified demonstrating the suitability of this substrate to produce hydrogen. Moreover, a large fraction of 16S-rDNA amplicons could not be assigned to lower taxonomic ranks, demonstrating that numerous microorganisms involved in anaerobic fermentation in digesters or bioreactors are still unclassified or unknown.

Searching for links in the biotic characteristics and abiotic parameters of nine different biogas plants.To find links between the biotic characteristics and abiotic process parameters in anaerobic digestion systems, the microbial communities of nine full-scale biogas plants in South Tyrol (Italy) and Vorarlberg (Austria) were investigated using molecular techniques and the physical and chemical properties were monitored. DNA from sludge samples was subjected to microarray hybridization with the ANAEROCHIP microarray and results indicated that sludge samples grouped into two main clusters, dominated either by Methanosarcina or by Methanosaeta, both aceticlastic methanogens. Hydrogenotrophic methanogens were hardly detected or if detected, gave low hybridization signals. Results obtained using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) supported the findings of microarray hybridization. Real-time PCR targeting Methanosarcina and Methanosaeta was conducted to provide quantitative data on the dominating methanogens. Correlation analysis to determine any links between the microbial communities found by microarray analysis, and the physicochemical parameters investigated was conducted. It was shown that the sludge samples dominated by the genus Methanosarcina were positively correlated with higher concentrations of acetate, whereas sludge samples dominated by representatives of the genus Methanosaeta had lower acetate concentrations. No other correlations between biotic characteristics and abiotic parameters were found. Methanogenic communities in each reactor were highly stable and resilient over the whole year.

Microbiota from the distal guts of lean and obese adolescents exhibit partial functional redundancy besides clear differences in community structure.Recent research has disclosed a tight connection between obesity, metabolic gut microbial activities and host health. Obtaining a complete understanding of this relationship remains a major goal. Here, we conducted a comparative metagenomic and metaproteomic investigation of gut microbial communities in faecal samples taken from an obese and a lean adolescent. By analysing the diversity of 16S rDNA amplicons (10% operational phylogenetic units being common), 22 Mbp of consensus metagenome sequences (~70% common) and the expression profiles of 613 distinct proteins (82% common), we found that in the obese gut, the total microbiota was more abundant on the phylum Firmicutes (94.6%) as compared with Bacteroidetes (3.2%), although the metabolically active microbiota clearly behaves in a more homogeneous manner with both contributing equally. The lean gut showed a remarkable shift towards Bacteroidetes (18.9% total 16S rDNA), which become the most active fraction (81% proteins). Although the two gut communities maintained largely similar gene repertoires and functional profiles, improved pili- and flagella-mediated host colonization and improved capacity for both complementary aerobic and anaerobic de novo B(12) synthesis, 1,2-propanediol catabolism (most likely participating in de novo B(12) synthesis) and butyrate production were observed in the obese gut, whereas bacteria from lean gut seem to be more engaged in vitamin B(6) synthesis. Furthermore, this study provides functional evidence that variable combinations of species from different phyla could 'presumptively' fulfil overlapping and/or complementary functional roles required by the host, a scenario where minor bacterial taxa seem to be significant active contributors.

Microbial 16S rRNA Ion Tag and community metagenome sequencing using the Ion Torrent (PGM) Platform.Here we demonstrate a cost effective and scalable microbial ecology sequencing platform using the Ion Torrent Personal Genome Machine (PGM). We assessed both PCR amplified 16S rRNA and shotgun metagenomic approaches and generated 100,000+ to 1,000,000+ reads using 'post-light' based sequencing technology within different sized semi-conductor chips. Further development of Golay barcoded Ion Tags allowed multiplex analyses of microbial communities with substantially reduced costs compared with platforms such as 454/GS-FLX. Using these protocols we assessed the bacterial and archaeal dynamics within covered anaerobic digesters used to treat piggery wastes. Analysis of these sequence data showed that these novel methanogenic waste treatment systems are dominated by bacterial taxa, in particular Clostridium, Synergistia and Bacteroides that were maintained as a stable community over extended time periods. Archaeal community dynamics were more stochastic with the key methanogenic taxa more difficult to resolve, principally due to the poor congruence seen between community structures generated either by nested PCR or metagenomic approaches for archaeal analyses. Our results show that for microbial community structure and function analyses, the PGM platform provides a low cost, scalable and high throughput solution for both Tag sequencing and metagenomic analyses.

Shifts in the rumen microbiota due to the type of carbohydrate and level of protein ingested by dairy cattle are associated with changes in rumen fermentation.Balancing energy and nitrogen in the rumen is a key to both profitability and environmental sustainability. Four dairy cows were used in a Latin square experimental design to investigate the effect of severe nitrogen underfeeding (110 vs. 80% of requirements) and the type of carbohydrate consumed [neutral detergent fiber rich (FIB) vs. starch rich (STA)] on the rumen ecosystem. These dietary treatments modified both rumen fermentation and microbial populations. Compared with STA diets, consumption of FIB diets increased bacterial and fungal diversity in the rumen and also increased the concentrations of cellulolytic microorganisms, including protozoa (+38%), anaerobic fungi (+59%), and methanogens (+27%). This microbial adaptation to fiber utilization led to similar digestibility values for the 2 carbohydrate sources and was accompanied by a shift in the rumen fermentation patterns; when the FIB diets were consumed, the cows had greater ruminal pH, ammonia concentrations, and molar proportions of acetate and propionate compared with when they consumed the STA diets. Certain rumen microorganisms were sensitive to a shortage of nitrogen; rumen concentrations of ammonia were 49% lower when the low-protein (LP) diets were consumed as were total bacteria (-13%), anaerobic fungi (-28%), methanogens (-27%), protozoa (-19%), cellulolytic bacteria, and microbial diversity compared with when the high-protein (HP) diets were consumed. As a result, the digestibility of the LP diets was less than that of the HP diets. These findings demonstrated that the rumen microbial ecosystem is directly linked to the rumen fermentation pattern and, to some extent, to the efficiency of diet utilization by dairy cattle.

Molecular analysis of meso- and thermophilic microbiota associated with anaerobic biowaste degradation.Microbial anaerobic digestion (AD) is used as a waste treatment process to degrade complex organic compounds into methane. The archaeal and bacterial taxa involved in AD are well known, whereas composition of the fungal community in the process has been less studied. The present study aimed to reveal the composition of archaeal, bacterial and fungal communities in response to increasing organic loading in mesophilic and thermophilic AD processes by applying 454 amplicon sequencing technology. Furthermore, a DNA microarray method was evaluated in order to develop a tool for monitoring the microbiological status of AD.
The 454 sequencing showed that the diversity and number of bacterial taxa decreased with increasing organic load, while archaeal i.e. methanogenic taxa remained more constant. The number and diversity of fungal taxa increased during the process and varied less in composition with process temperature than bacterial and archaeal taxa, even though the fungal diversity increased with temperature as well. Evaluation of the microarray using AD sample DNA showed correlation of signal intensities with sequence read numbers of corresponding target groups. The sensitivity of the test was found to be about 1%.
The fungal community survives in anoxic conditions and grows with increasing organic loading, suggesting that Fungi may contribute to the digestion by metabolising organic nutrients for bacterial and methanogenic groups. The microarray proof of principle tests suggest that the method has the potential for semiquantitative detection of target microbial groups given that comprehensive sequence data is available for probe design.

Metaproteome analysis to determine the metabolically active part of a thermophilic microbial community producing biogas from agricultural biomass.Complex consortia of microorganisms are responsible for biogas production. A lot of information about the taxonomic structure and enzymatic potential of such communities has been collected by a variety of gene-based approaches, yet little is known about which of all the assumable metabolic pathways are active throughout the process of biogas formation. To tackle this problem, we established a protocol for the metaproteomic analysis of samples taken from biogas reactors fed with agricultural biomass. In contrast to previous studies where an anaerobic digester was fed with synthetic wastewater, the complex matrix in this study required the extraction of proteins with liquid phenol and the application of paper bridge loading for 2-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Proteins were subjected to nanoHPLC (high-performance liquid chromatography) coupled to tandem mass spectrometry for characterization. Several housekeeping proteins as well as methanogenesis-related enzymes were identified by a MASCOT search and de novo sequencing, which proved the feasibility of our approach. The establishment of such an approach is the basis for further metaproteomic studies of biogas-producing communities. In particular, the apparent status of metabolic activities within the communities can be monitored. The knowledge collected from such experiments could lead to further improvements of biogas production.

An in vitro evaluation of the effect of probiotics and prebiotics on the metabolic profile of human microbiota.In the current study, batch culture fermentations on fecal samples of 3 healthy individuals were performed to assess the effect of the addition of prebiotics (FOS), probiotics (Bifidobacterium longum Bar33 and Lactobacillus helveticus Bar13) and synbiotics (B. longum Bar33 + L. helveticus Bar13 + FOS) on the fecal metabolic profiles. A total of 84 different metabolites belonging to the families of sulfur compounds, nitrogen compounds, aldehydes, ketones, esters, alcohols, phenols, organic acids, and hydrocarbons were detected by GC-MS/SPME analysis. The highest number of metabolites varied in concentration in the models with added FOS and synbiotics, where several metabolic signatures were found in common. The increase of butyrate represented the greatest variation registered after the addition of FOS alone. Following the B. longum Bar33 addition, 2-methyl butyrate underwent the most evident variation. In the batch fermentation with added L. helveticus Bar13, the decrease of pyridine and butandiene was observed together with the increase of 2-methyl-5-ethyl-pyrazine, 2-butanone and butyrate. The modification of the fecal metabolic profiles induced by the simultaneous addition of B. longum Bar33 and L. helveticus Bar13 was very similar to that observed after the supplementation with L. helveticus Bar13, regarding mainly the decrease of pyridine and the increase of butyrate.

Similarity of the ruminal bacteria across individual lactating cows.Dairy cattle hold enormous significance for man as a source of milk and meat. Their remarkable ability to convert indigestible plant mass into these digestible food products resides in the rumen - an anaerobic chambered compartment - in the bovine digestive system. The rumen houses a complex microbiota which is responsible for the degradation of plant material, consequently enabling the conversion of plant fibers into milk and meat and determining their quality and quantity. Hence, an understanding of this complex ecosystem has major economic implications. One important question that is yet to be addressed is the degree of conservation of rumen microbial composition across individual animals. Here we quantified the degree of similarity between rumen bacterial populations of 16 individual cows. We used real-time PCR to determine the variance of specific ruminal bacterial species with different metabolic functions, revealing that while some bacterial strains vary greatly across animals, others show only very low variability. This variance could not be linked to the metabolic traits of these bacteria. We examined the degree of similarity in the dominant bacterial populations across all animals using automated ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (ARISA), and identified a bacterial community consisting of 32% operational taxonomic units (OTUs) shared by at least 90% of the animals and 19% OTUs shared by 100% of the animals. Looking only at the presence or absence of each OTU gave an average similarity of 75% between each cow pair. When abundance of each OTU was added to the analysis, this similarity decreased to an average of less than 60%. Thus, as suggested in similar recent studies of the human gut, a bovine rumen core microbiome does exist, but taxa abundance may vary greatly across animals.

Gut bacteria profiles of Mus musculus at the phylum and family levels are influenced by saturation of dietary fatty acids.Mammalian gut microbiota have been implicated in a variety of functions including the breakdown of ingested nutrients, the regulation of energy intake and storage, the control of immune system development and activity, and the synthesis of novel chemicals. Previous studies have shown that feeding mammalian hosts a high-fat diet shifts gut bacteria at the phylum level to reduce the ratio of Bacteroidetes-to-Firmicutes, while feeding hosts a fat-restricted diet increases this ratio. However, few studies have investigated the differential effects of fatty acid type on gut bacterial profile.
Over a 14-week period, Mus musculus were fed a diet rich in omega-3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-3 PUFAs), omega-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (n-6 PUFAs), or saturated fatty acids (SFAs). Fecal pellets were collected before and after the treatment period from 12 randomly selected mice (4 per treatment group). Bacterial DNA was extracted from the pellets and characterized by analysis of the hypervariable V3 region of the 16S rRNA. Nominal logistic regression models were used to assess shifts in microbial profile at the phylum and family levels in response to diet.
A significant decrease in the proportion of phylum Bacteroidetes species was observed for mice fed any of the three diets over time. However, the SFA-rich diet group showed a significantly greater decrease in Bacteroidetes proportion (-28%) than did either the n-3 PUFA group (-10%) or the n-6 PUFA group (-12%). At the family level, a significant decrease in proportion of Porphyromonadaceae was observed for mice fed the n-6 PUFA-rich diet, and a significant decrease in proportion of Lachnospiraceae was observed for mice fed the SFA-rich diet. There was no significant effect of diet type on body mass change.
Our results indicate that SFAs have stronger effects than PUFAs in shifting gut microbiota profiles toward those typical of obese individuals, and that dietary fatty acid saturation influences shifts in gut microbiota independently of changes in body mass.

Functional dysbiosis within the gut microbiota of patients with constipated-irritable bowel syndrome.The role of the gut microbiota in patho-physiology of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is suggested by several studies. However, standard cultural and molecular methods used to date have not revealed specific and consistent IBS-related groups of microbes.
To explore the constipated-IBS (C-IBS) gut microbiota using a function-based approach.
The faecal microbiota from 14 C-IBS women and 12 sex-match healthy subjects were examined through a combined strictly anaerobic cultural evaluation of functional groups of microbes and fluorescent in situ hybridisation (16S rDNA gene targeting probes) to quantify main groups of bacteria. Starch fermentation by C-IBS and healthy faecal samples was evaluated in vitro.
In C-IBS, the numbers of lactate-producing and lactate-utilising bacteria and the number of H(2) -consuming populations, methanogens and reductive acetogens, were at least 10-fold lower (P < 0.05) compared with control subjects. Concomitantly, the number of lactate- and H(2) -utilising sulphate-reducing population was 10 to 100 fold increased in C-IBS compared with healthy subjects. The butyrate-producing Roseburia - E. rectale group was in lower number (0.01 < P < 0.05) in C-IBS than in control. C-IBS faecal microbiota produced more sulphides and H(2) and less butyrate from starch fermentation than healthy ones.
A major functional dysbiosis was observed in constipated-irritable bowel syndrome gut microbiota, reflecting altered intestinal fermentation. Sulphate-reducing population increased in the gut of C-IBS and were accompanied by alterations in other microbial groups. This could be responsible for changes in the metabolic output and enhancement in toxic sulphide production which could in turn influence gut physiology and contribute to IBS pathogenesis.

Clostridia in premature neonates' gut: incidence, antibiotic susceptibility, and perinatal determinants influencing colonization.Although premature neonates (PN) gut microbiota has been studied, data about gut clostridial colonization in PN are scarce. Few studies have reported clostridia colonization in PN whereas Bacteroides and bifidobacteria have been seldom isolated. Such aberrant gut microbiota has been suggested to be a risk factor for the development of intestinal infections. Besides, PN are often treated by broad spectrum antibiotics, but little is known about how antibiotics can influence clostridial colonization based on their susceptibility patterns. The aim of this study was to report the distribution of Clostridium species isolated in feces from PN and to determine their antimicrobial susceptibility patterns. Additionally, clostridial colonization perinatal determinants were analyzed.
Of the 76 PN followed until hospital discharge in three French neonatal intensive care units (NICUs), 79% were colonized by clostridia. Clostridium sp. colonization, with a high diversity of species, increased throughout the hospitalization. Antibiotic courses had no effect on the clostridial colonization incidence although strains were found susceptible (except C. difficile) to anti-anaerobe molecules tested. However, levels of colonization were decreased by either antenatal or neonatal (during more than 10 days) antibiotic courses (p = 0.006 and p = 0.001, respectively). Besides, incidence of colonization was depending on the NICU (p = 0.048).
This study shows that clostridia are part of the PN gut microbiota. It provides for the first time information on the status of clostridia antimicrobial susceptibility in PN showing that strains were susceptible to most antibiotic molecules. Thus, the high prevalence of this genus is not linked to a high degree of resistance to antimicrobial agents or to the use of antibiotics in NICUs. The main perinatal determinant influencing PN clostridia colonization appears to be the NICU environment.

Characterization of a Methanogenic Community within an Algal Fed Anaerobic Digester.The microbial diversity and metabolic potential of a methanogenic consortium residing in a 3785-liter anaerobic digester, fed with wastewater algae, was analyzed using 454 pyrosequencing technology. DNA was extracted from anaerobic sludge material and used in metagenomic analysis through PCR amplification of the methyl-coenzyme M reductase α subunit (mcrA) gene using primer sets ML, MCR, and ME. The majority of annotated mcrA sequences were assigned taxonomically to the genera Methanosaeta in the order Methanosarcinales. Methanogens from the genus Methanosaeta are obligate acetotrophs, suggesting this genus plays a dominant role in methane production from the analyzed fermentation sample. Numerous analyzed sequences within the algae fed anaerobic digester were unclassified and could not be assigned taxonomically. Relative amplicon frequencies were determined for each primer set to determine the utility of each in pyrosequencing. Primer sets ML and MCR performed better quantitatively (representing the large majority of analyzed sequences) than primer set ME. However, each of these primer sets was shown to provide a quantitatively unique community structure, and thus they are of equal importance in mcrA metagenomic analysis.

Gut microbiota and pediatric disease.Researchers have made every effort to assess the role of gut microbiota in pediatric diseases like inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), celiac disease, asthma, allergy, and autism. The leading hypothesis is that an altered microbial composition is present (other than the presence of a specific pathogen) and that it could be involved in the pathogenesis or progression of such disorders.
Cultural, molecular, metabolomic, and metagenomic approaches are trying to define the pediatric gut microbiota imbalances in different diseases.
In pediatric IBD, a marked increase in aerobes and facultative anaerobes was found, along with an increase in Enterobacteriaceae members (Escherichia coli). In both pediatric IBD and celiac disease (Th1-mediated disorders), higher bacterial cell counts were observed, jointly with a general gain of biodiversity. A preponderance of Bacteroidetes and a parallel decrease of Firmicutes was also reported in IBD, celiac disease and autism. Contrarily, dietary changes due to Western lifestyles increase Firmicutes populations and lower short-chain fatty acids production, possibly exposing 'developed' children to the infectious challenge (Escherichia and Shigella spp.). Lactobacillus and Bifidobacterium species could be protective agents for atopic diseases, while Clostridia, Enterobacteriaceae, and staphylococci can be associated with an increased risk of such Th2-mediated disorders. In the brain-gut axis view, gut microbiota could also play a role in autism.

Characterization of microbial biofilms in a thermophilic biogas system by high-throughput metagenome sequencing.DNAs of two biofilms of a thermophilic two-phase leach-bed biogas reactor fed with rye silage and winter barley straw were sequenced by 454-pyrosequencing technology to assess the biofilm-based microbial community and their genetic potential for anaerobic digestion. The studied biofilms matured on the surface of the substrates in the hydrolysis reactor (HR) and on the packing in the anaerobic filter reactor (AF). The classification of metagenome reads showed Clostridium as most prevalent bacteria in the HR, indicating a predominant role for plant material digestion. Notably, insights into the genetic potential of plant-degrading bacteria were determined as well as further bacterial groups, which may assist Clostridium in carbohydrate degradation. Methanosarcina and Methanothermobacter were determined as most prevalent methanogenic archaea. In consequence, the biofilm-based methanogenesis in this system might be driven by the hydrogenotrophic pathway but also by the aceticlastic methanogenesis depending on metabolite concentrations such as the acetic acid concentration. Moreover, bacteria, which are capable of acetate oxidation in syntrophic interaction with methanogens, were also predicted. Finally, the metagenome analysis unveiled a large number of reads with unidentified microbial origin, indicating that the anaerobic degradation process may also be conducted by up to now unknown species.

Metagenomic analysis of DNA viruses in a wastewater treatment plant in tropical climate.Viruses have been detected in the different stages of wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) at concentrations of 10(8) -10(10)  ml(-1) of virus-like particles (VLPs), 10-1000 times higher than in natural aquatic environments, suggesting that WWTPs can be considered as an important reservoir and source of viruses. This study revealed novel diversity and function with the DNA viral communities in the influent, activated sludge, anaerobic digester, and effluent of a domestic WWTP using metagenomics. WWTP was a very specific environment, with less than 5% of the > 936 000 metagenomic sequences obtained (∼70-119 Mbp per sample) similar to sequences present in other environmental viromes. Many viruses found in the WWTP were novel, resulting in only < 5-20% of the reads being phylogenetically or functionally assigned. DNA metabolism was observed as the most abundant function with DNA methylase detected at levels 4.2-fold higher than other published viromes, while carbohydrate and amino acids metabolisms were 3.7- and 4.2-fold less abundant respectively. These specific aspects of the WWTP community functions are likely due to high biomass concentration, turnover rate and microbial activity in WWTPs, and likely include mechanisms that help viruses increase their infectivity. Among ∼500 genotypes estimated in individual WWTP viromes, > 82% were shared. These data suggested that VLPs of most viral types could be present between 1 and 30 days in the process before they were discharged. Viruses in WWTP and the discharged ones can have potential impacts on the functioning of the wastewater treatment system and on the dynamics of microbial community in the surrounding aquatic environments respectively.

In vitro fermentation characteristics of whole grain wheat flakes and the effect of toasting on prebiotic potential.Population studies have shown a positive correlation between diets rich in whole grains and a reduced risk of developing metabolic diseases, like diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and certain cancers. However, little is known about the mechanisms of action, particularly the impact different fermentable components of whole grains have on the human intestinal microbiota. The modulation of microbial populations by whole grain wheat flakes and the effects of toasting on digestion and subsequent fermentation profile were evaluated. Raw, partially toasted, and toasted wheat flakes were digested using simulated gastric and small intestinal conditions and then fermented using 24-hour, pH-controlled, anaerobic batch cultures inoculated with human feces. Major bacterial groups and production of short-chain fatty acids were compared with those for the prebiotic oligofructose and weakly fermented cellulose. Within treatments, a significant increase (P<.05) in bifidobacteria numbers was observed upon fermentation of all test carbohydrates, with the exception of cellulose. Toasting appeared to have an effect on growth of lactobacilli as only fermentation of raw wheat flakes resulted in a significant increase in levels of this group.

The influence of Staphylococcus aureus on gut microbial ecology in an in vitro continuous culture human colonic model system.An anaerobic three-stage continuous culture model of the human colon (gut model), which represent different anatomical areas of the large intestine, was used to study the effect of S. aureus infection of the gut on the resident faecal microbiota. Studies on the development of the microbiota in the three vessels were performed and bacteria identified by culture independent fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Furthermore, short chain fatty acids (SCFA), as principal end products of gut bacterial metabolism, were measured along with a quantitative assessment of the predominant microbiota. During steady state conditions, numbers of S. aureus cells stabilised until they were washed out, but populations of indigenous bacteria were transiently altered; thus S. aureus was able to compromise colonisation resistance by the colonic microbiota. Furthermore, the concentration of butyric acid in the vessel representing the proximal colon was significantly decreased by infection. Thus infection by S. aureus appears to be able to alter the overall structure of the human colonic microbiota and the microbial metabolic profiles. This work provides an initial in vitro model to analyse interactions with pathogens.

Study of human microecology by mass spectrometry of microbial markers.This review shows that mass spectrometry of microbial markers (MSMM) permits simultaneous in situ determination of more than one hundred microbial fatty acids in clinical, biotechnological or environmental samples, without precultivation and use of biochemical test materials and primers. Unprecedented information about the quantity of anaerobes and uncultivated aerobes, as well as actinobacteria, yeasts, viruses and microscopic fungi in one sample has provided a full understanding of microbial etiology in clinical conditions of patients. The study of intestine dysbiosis has confirmed the hypothesis about the nosological specificity of changes in the intestinal microbiota. It has been proven that infectious processes are polymicrobial. Measurements have shown that anaerobes dominate in number and functional activities in inflammation. The division of microbes into pathogenic and non- pathogenic is artificial. All microbes living in a human body simultaneously stay in both forms. Lactobacilli and bifidobacteria appear as agents of septic conditions and endocarditis. МSММ data confirm that anaerobes of Clostridium, Eubacterium, Propionibacterium, as well as actinobacteria of Streptomyces, Nocardia, Rhodococcus are mixed infection dominants. The data testify translocation of these microbes in inflammation loci from the intestine. Quantitative comparison of concentration of markers in the inflamed organ and blood proves reproduction of microorganisms in this locus. The current hypothesis is confirmed that the goal of translocation is not only infection, but also a biofilm formation similar to intestines, which stimulate local immunity, protection from local pathogens and restoration of the damaged tissues. Quantification using GC-MS revealed that the influence of antibiotics on the normal intestine's microbiota are not as dramatic as believed. Growth-promoting effects are the most important benefits of probiotic applications. The probiotic essence is not the microbial biomass itself, but growth factors, alarm molecules, and other factors of intestinal microbes. There are new possibilities in improving probiotics by using microbial 'consortia', modelling real gut microbiota.

A novel acyl-CoA beta-transaminase characterized from a metagenome.Bacteria are key components in all ecosystems. However, our knowledge of bacterial metabolism is based solely on the study of cultivated organisms which represent just a tiny fraction of microbial diversity. To access new enzymatic reactions and new or alternative pathways, we investigated bacterial metabolism through analyses of uncultivated bacterial consortia.
We applied the gene context approach to assembled sequences of the metagenome of the anaerobic digester of a municipal wastewater treatment plant, and identified a new gene which may participate in an alternative pathway of lysine fermentation.
We characterized a novel, unique aminotransferase that acts exclusively on Coenzyme A (CoA) esters, and proposed a variant route for lysine fermentation. Results suggest that most of the lysine fermenting organisms use this new pathway in the digester. Its presence in organisms representative of two distinct bacterial divisions indicate that it may also be present in other organisms.

A vegan or vegetarian diet substantially alters the human colonic faecal microbiota.Consisting of ≈10(14) microbial cells, the intestinal microbiota represents the largest and the most complex microbial community inhabiting the human body. However, the influence of regular diets on the microbiota is widely unknown.
We examined faecal samples of vegetarians (n=144), vegans (n=105) and an equal number of control subjects consuming ordinary omnivorous diet who were matched for age and gender. We used classical bacteriological isolation, identification and enumeration of the main anaerobic and aerobic bacterial genera and computed absolute and relative numbers that were compared between groups.
Total counts of Bacteroides spp., Bifidobacterium spp., Escherichia coli and Enterobacteriaceae spp. were significantly lower (P=0.001, P=0.002, P=0.006 and P=0.008, respectively) in vegan samples than in controls, whereas others (E. coli biovars, Klebsiella spp., Enterobacter spp., other Enterobacteriaceae, Enterococcus spp., Lactobacillus spp., Citrobacter spp. and Clostridium spp.) were not. Subjects on a vegetarian diet ranked between vegans and controls. The total microbial count did not differ between the groups. In addition, subjects on a vegan or vegetarian diet showed significantly (P=0.0001) lower stool pH than did controls, and stool pH and counts of E. coli and Enterobacteriaceae were significantly correlated across all subgroups.
Maintaining a strict vegan or vegetarian diet results in a significant shift in the microbiota while total cell numbers remain unaltered.

In vitro maintenance of a human proximal colon microbiota using the continuous fermentation system P-ECSIM.Ethical and technical difficulties for in vivo studies on gut microbiotas argue for the development of alternative in vitro models: here, we describe a system simulating the proximal part of a human colon both nutritionally and physico-chemically with a procedure aimed to limit experimental variations over the time (Proximal Environmental Control System For Intestinal Microbiota--P-ECSIM). The continuous culture system P-ECSIM is first inoculated by a -20 °C glycerol stock established from the batch culture of a stool-inoculated medium. The anaerobic atmosphere is self-maintained by the gases produced in the ordinary metabolism of fermentations. The monitoring of metabolic activities and microbial constitutions indicates that different steady states are obtained according to the dilution rate. Finally, the glycerol conservation of the batch culture-derived inoculum gives a similar differential response between the two dilution rates (D = 0.08 h⁻¹ and D = 0.04 h⁻¹) after a 1-year storage time as well for their metabolism and constitution in steady states, but with a lower abundance. Molecular fingerprints of the microbiota reveal however alterations over the time. Further efforts are needed concerning the preservation of standardized inoculums in order to improve the process for intra- and inter-lab comparison. Combined with appropriate analytical techniques, this system provides an efficient alternative means of studying functionally human microbiota in its constitution, metabolism and adaptation to environmental changes, particularly nutritional.

Composition and stability of the microbial community inside the digestive tract of the aquatic crustacean Daphnia magna.Small filter-feeding zooplankton organisms like the cladoceran Daphnia spp. are key members of freshwater food webs. Although several interactions between Daphnia and bacteria have been investigated, the importance of the microbial communities inside Daphnia guts has been studied only poorly so far. In the present study, we characterised the bacterial community composition inside the digestive tract of a laboratory-reared clonal culture of Daphnia magna using 16S rRNA gene libraries and terminal-restriction length polymorphism fingerprint analyses. In addition, the diversity and stability of the intestinal microbial community were investigated over time, with different food sources as well as under starvation stress and death, and were compared to the community in the cultivation water. The diversity of the Daphnia gut microbiota was low. The bacterial community consisted mainly of Betaproteobacteria (e.g. Limnohabitans sp.), few Gammaproteobacteria (e.g. Pseudomonas sp.) and Bacteroidetes that were related to facultatively anaerobic bacteria, but did not contain typical fermentative or obligately anaerobic gut bacteria. Rather, the microbiota was constantly dominated by Limnohabitans sp. which belongs to the Lhab-A1 tribe (previously called R-BT065 cluster) that is abundant in various freshwaters. Other bacterial groups varied distinctly even under constant cultivation conditions. Overall, the intestinal microbial community did not reflect the community in the surrounding cultivation water and clustered separately when analysed via the Additive Main Effects and Multiplicative Interaction model. In addition, the microbiota proved to be stable also when Daphnia were exposed to bacteria associated with a different food alga. After starvation, the community in the digestive tract was reduced to stable members. After death of the host animals, the community composition in the gut changed distinctly, and formerly undetected bacteria were activated. Our results suggest that the Daphnia microbiota consists mainly of an aerobic resident bacterial community which is indigenous to this habitat.

The human commensal Bacteroides fragilis binds intestinal mucin.The mammalian gastrointestinal tract harbors a vast microbial ecosystem, known as the microbiota, which benefits host biology. Bacteroides fragilis is an important anaerobic gut commensal of humans that prevents and cures intestinal inflammation. We wished to elucidate aspects of gut colonization employed by B. fragilis. Fluorescence in situ hybridization was performed on colonic tissue sections from B. fragilis and Escherichia coli dual-colonized gnotobiotic mice. Epifluorescence imaging reveals that both E. coli and B. fragilis are found in the lumen of the colon, but only B. fragilis is found in the mucosal layer. This observation suggests that physical association with intestinal mucus could be a possible mechanism of gut colonization by B. fragilis. We investigated this potential interaction using an in vitro mucus binding assay and show here that B. fragilis binds to murine colonic mucus. We further demonstrate that B. fragilis specifically and quantitatively binds to highly purified mucins (the major constituent in intestinal mucus) using flow cytometry analysis of fluorescently labeled purified murine and porcine mucins. These results suggest that interactions between B. fragilis and intestinal mucin may play a critical role during host-bacterial symbiosis.

Anaerobic carbon monoxide dehydrogenase diversity in the homoacetogenic hindgut microbial communities of lower termites and the wood roach.Anaerobic carbon monoxide dehydrogenase (CODH) is a key enzyme in the Wood-Ljungdahl (acetyl-CoA) pathway for acetogenesis performed by homoacetogenic bacteria. Acetate generated by gut bacteria via the acetyl-CoA pathway provides considerable nutrition to wood-feeding dictyopteran insects making CODH important to the obligate mutualism occurring between termites and their hindgut microbiota. To investigate CODH diversity in insect gut communities, we developed the first degenerate primers designed to amplify cooS genes, which encode the catalytic (β) subunit of anaerobic CODH enzyme complexes. These primers target over 68 million combinations of potential forward and reverse cooS primer-binding sequences. We used the primers to identify cooS genes in bacterial isolates from the hindgut of a phylogenetically lower termite and to sample cooS diversity present in a variety of insect hindgut microbial communities including those of three phylogenetically-lower termites, Zootermopsis nevadensis, Reticulitermes hesperus, and Incisitermes minor, a wood-feeding cockroach, Cryptocercus punctulatus, and an omnivorous cockroach, Periplaneta americana. In total, we sequenced and analyzed 151 different cooS genes. These genes encode proteins that group within one of three highly divergent CODH phylogenetic clades. Each insect gut community contained CODH variants from all three of these clades. The patterns of CODH diversity in these communities likely reflect differences in enzyme or physiological function, and suggest that a diversity of microbial species participate in homoacetogenesis in these communities.

Effects of enrofloxacin on the human intestinal microbiota in vitro.An anaerobic, continuous-flow culture method has been developed to assess the effects of different levels of enrofloxacin (ENR) on the human intestinal microbiota. Chemostats containing human faecal flora were exposed to 1.25, 12.5 and 125 μg/mL ENR. Before and during drug exposure, samples aspirated from culture vessels were analysed using viable cell counting and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). In addition, the colonisation resistance (CR) of the microbiota to Candida albicans SC5314 was evaluated. When exposed to 1.25 μg/mL ENR, total counts of aerobic bacteria, anaerobic bacteria, Lactobacillus, enterococci, Escherichia coli and Bacteroides fragilis were similar to the control group, except for Bifidobacterium; when exposed to 12.5 μg/mL and 125μg/mL ENR, numbers of categorised microorganisms changed significantly, except for B. fragilis. DGGE indicated that although 1.25 μg/mL ENR had little effect on the total number of microbiota, several bands representing dominant bacteria disappeared. The bands disappeared more quickly when exposed to 12.5 μg/mL and 125 μg/mL ENR. In addition to their influence on microbial diversity, different levels of ENR reduced the CR of the intestinal microbiota to C. albicans SC5314.

Probiotics and neonatal necrotizing enterocolitis.Neonatal necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) is one of few diseases for which probiotics have appeared to have clear benefit in clinical trials, however safety concerns persist. Clinical trials of probiotics have preceded our understanding of the effect of probiotics on the developing gut and microbial colonization patterns of the preterm infant. Colonization of the preterm intestine begins with the birthing process and is then influenced by the neonatal intensive care unit and iatrogenic manipulations. Resulting altered microbiota may have significant implications for the immature preterm gut and susceptibility to NEC.

Comparative analysis of fecal microbiota and intestinal microbial metabolic activity in captive polar bears.The composition of the intestinal microbiota depends on gut physiology and diet. Ursidae possess a simple gastrointestinal system composed of a stomach, small intestine, and indistinct hindgut. This study determined the composition and stability of fecal microbiota of 3 captive polar bears by group-specific quantitative PCR and PCR-DGGE (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) using the 16S rRNA gene as target. Intestinal metabolic activity was determined by analysis of short-chain fatty acids in feces. For comparison, other Carnivora and mammals were included in this study. Total bacterial abundance was approximately log 8.5 DNA gene copies·(g feces)-1 in all 3 polar bears. Fecal polar bear microbiota was dominated by the facultative anaerobes Enterobacteriaceae and enterococci, and the Clostridium cluster I. The detection of the Clostridium perfringens α-toxin gene verified the presence of C. perfringens. Composition of the fecal bacterial population was stable on a genus level; according to results obtained by PCR-DGGE, dominant bacterial species fluctuated. The total short-chain fatty acid content of Carnivora and other mammals analysed was comparable; lactate was detected in feces of all carnivora but present only in trace amounts in other mammals. In comparison, the fecal microbiota and metabolic activity of captive polar bears mostly resembled the closely related grizzly and black bears.

Microbial community dynamics in mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion of mixed waste.This paper identifies key components of the microbial community involved in the mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion (AD) of mixed waste at Rayong Biogas Plant, Thailand. The AD process is separated into three stages: front end treatment (FET); feed holding tank and the main anaerobic digester. The study examines how the microbial community structure was affected by the different stages and found that seeding the waste at the beginning of the process (FET) resulted in community stability. Also, co-digestion of mixed waste supported different bacterial and methanogenic pathways. Typically, acetoclastic methanogenesis was the major pathway catalysed by Methanosaeta but hydrogenotrophs were also supported. Finally, the three-stage AD process means that hydrolysis and acidogenesis is initiated prior to entering the main digester which helps improve the bioconversion efficiency. This paper demonstrates that both resource availability (different waste streams) and environmental factors are key drivers of microbial community dynamics in mesophilic, anaerobic co-digestion.

Thermophilic two-stage dry anaerobic digestion of model garbage with ammonia stripping.To avoid the inhibition of methane production by ammonia that occurs during the degradation of garbage, anaerobic digestion with prior ammonia production and subsequent stripping was investigated. In the ammonia production phase, the maximum ammonia concentration was approximately 2800 mg N/kg of total wet sludge in the range of 4 days of sludge retention time, indicating that only 43% of total nitrogen in the model garbage was converted to ammonia. The model garbage from which ammonia was produced and stripped was subjected to semi-continuous thermophilic dry anaerobic digestion over 180 days. The gas yield was in the range of 0.68 to 0.75 Nm(3)/kg volatile solid, and it decreased with the decrease of the sludge retention time. The ammonia-nitrogen concentration in the sludge was kept below 3000 mg N/kg total wet sludge. Microbial community structure analysis revealed that the phylum Firmicutes dominated in the ammonia production, but the community structure changed at different sludge retention times. In dry anaerobic digestion, the dominant bacteria shifted from the phylum Thermotogae to Firmicutes. The dominant archaeon was the genus Methanothermobacter, but the ratio of Methanosarcina increased during the process of dry anaerobic digestion.

Safety and intestinal microbiota modulation by the exopolysaccharide-producing strains Bifidobacterium animalis IPLA R1 and Bifidobacterium longum IPLA E44 orally administered to Wistar rats.Bifidobacterium animalis subsp. lactis IPLA R1 and Bifidobacterium longum IPLA E44 strains were tested for their safety and ability to modulate the intestinal microbiota in vivo. Chemically simulated gastrointestinal digestion showed considerably lower survival of E44 than R1 strain, the first microorganism also being more sensitive to refrigerated storage in 10% skimmed milk at 4°C. Harmful glycosidic activities were absent, or at low levels, in the strains R1 and E44. Both strains were sensitive to most antibiotics and resistant to aminoglycosides, a common feature in bifidobacteria. Similar to several other bifidobacteria strains, B. animalis subsp. lactis IPLA R1 displayed a moderate resistance against tetracycline which correlated with the presence of tet(W) gene in its genome. The general parameters indicating well-being status, as well as translocation to different organs and histological examination of the gut tissues, revealed no changes induced by the administration of bifidobacteria to rats. Twelve-week-old male Wistar rats were distributed into three groups, eight rats in each. Two groups were administered daily over 10⁸cfu of the corresponding strain suspended in 10% skimmed milk for 24 days, whereas rats in the placebo group received skimmed milk without microorganisms added. The microbiota and short chain fatty acids (SCFA) were monitored in faeces at different time points during treatment and in caecum content at the end of the assay. Quantitative PCR (qPCR) showed that faecal and caecal Bifidobacterium levels were higher in bifidobacteria-fed rats than in the placebo rats at the end of the intervention, whereas total anaerobic plate counts did not show significant differences. Quantification of B. animalis and B. longum by qPCR showed that, independent of the microorganism administered, treatment with bifidobacteria resulted in higher levels of B. animalis in the caecum. PCR-DGGE analysis of microbial populations revealed a higher diversity of bands in caecum content of rats fed B. animalis IPLA R1 than in the placebo group and rats fed B. longum IPLA E44. Remarkably, although no variations in the proportion of acetate, propionate and butyrate were found, at the end of the assay the total SCFA concentration in the faeces of rats fed bifidobacteria was significantly higher and those in caecum content significantly lower, than that of the placebo group. This suggests a displacement of the SCFA production to parts of the colon beyond the caecum in rats receiving bifidobacteria. Therefore, the oral administration of B. animalis IPLA R1 and B. longum E44 can be considered safe, these microorganisms having the ability to modulate the intestinal microbiota of rats by influencing SCFA and the bifidobacterial population levels.

Intestinal alkaline phosphatase preserves the normal homeostasis of gut microbiota.The intestinal microbiota plays a critical role in maintaining human health; however, the mechanisms governing the normal homeostatic number and composition of these microbes are largely unknown. Previously it was shown that intestinal alkaline phosphatase (IAP), a small intestinal brush border enzyme, functions as a gut mucosal defence factor limiting the translocation of gut bacteria to mesenteric lymph nodes. In this study the role of IAP in the preservation of the normal homeostasis of the gut microbiota was investigated.
Bacterial culture was performed in aerobic and anaerobic conditions to quantify the number of bacteria in the stools of wild-type (WT) and IAP knockout (IAP-KO) C57BL/6 mice. Terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism, phylogenetic analyses and quantitative real-time PCR of subphylum-specific bacterial 16S rRNA genes were used to determine the compositional profiles of microbiotas. Oral supplementation of calf IAP (cIAP) was used to determine its effects on the recovery of commensal gut microbiota after antibiotic treatment and also on the colonisation of pathogenic bacteria.
IAP-KO mice had dramatically fewer and also different types of aerobic and anaerobic microbes in their stools compared with WT mice. Oral supplementation of IAP favoured the growth of commensal bacteria, enhanced restoration of gut microbiota lost due to antibiotic treatment and inhibited the growth of a pathogenic bacterium (Salmonella typhimurium).
IAP is involved in the maintenance of normal gut microbial homeostasis and may have therapeutic potential against dysbiosis and pathogenic infections.

Human faecal microbiota display variable patterns of glycerol metabolism.Significant amounts of glycerol reach the colon microbiota daily through the diet and/or by in situ microbial production or release from desquamated epithelial cells. Some gut microorganisms may anaerobically reduce glycerol to 1,3-propanediol (1,3-PDO), with 3-hydroxypropanal as an intermediate. Accumulation of the latter intermediate may result in the formation of reuterin, which is known for its biological activity (e.g. antimicrobial properties). To date, glycerol metabolism in mixed cultures from the human colon has received little attention. Using in vitro batch incubations of faeces from 10 human individuals, we demonstrated that glycerol addition (140 mM) significantly affects the metabolism and composition of the microbial community. About a third of the samples exhibited rapid glycerol conversion, yielding proportionally higher levels of acetate and 1,3-PDO. In contrast, a slower glycerol metabolism resulted in higher levels of propionate. Furthermore, rapid glycerol metabolism correlated with significant shifts in the Lactobacillus-Enterococcus community, which were not observed in slower glycerol-metabolizing samples. As the conversion of glycerol to 1,3-PDO is a highly reducing process, we infer that the glycerol metabolism may act as an effective hydrogen sink. Given the importance of hydrogen-consuming processes in the gut, this work suggests that glycerol may have potential as a tool for modulating fermentation kinetics and profiles in the gastrointestinal tract.

Effect of ceftobiprole on the normal human intestinal microflora.Ceftobiprole is a new broad-spectrum pyrrolidinone cephem active against meticillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus, vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecalis and Gram-negative bacteria such as Enterobacteriaceae and Pseudomonas spp. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effect of administration of ceftobiprole on the normal intestinal microflora. Twelve healthy subjects (six males and six females) aged 20-31 years received ceftobiprole 500 mg by intravenous infusion every 8h for 7 days. Plasma samples were collected on Days -1, 1, 4, 7, 10, 14 and 21 for determination of drug concentration by biological and chemical methods. Faecal samples were collected on Days -1, 2, 4, 7, 10, 14 and 21. For analysis of the microflora, faecal specimens were cultured on non-selective and selective media. Different colony types were counted, isolated in pure culture and identified to genus level. All new colonising aerobic and anaerobic bacteria were tested for susceptibility to ceftobiprole. Plasma concentrations of ceftobiprole 10 min after completion of infusion were as follows: Day 1, 14.7-23.6 mg/L; Day 4, 15.9-24.5 mg/L; and Day 7, 15.9-23.9 mg/L. No ceftobiprole was detected in plasma on Days -1, 10, 14 and 21. No measurable concentrations of ceftobiprole were found in faeces on Days -1, 2, 4, 7, 10, 14 and 21. There were minor changes in the numbers of enteric bacteria, enterococci and Candida albicans and there were moderate changes in the numbers of bifidobacteria, lactobacilli, clostridia and Bacteroides spp. during the same period. No Clostridium difficile strains or toxins were found. No new colonising aerobic and anaerobic bacteria with ceftobiprole minimum inhibitory concentrations of ≥ 4 mg/L were found. Ceftobiprole had no significant ecological impact on the human intestinal microflora.

Bacterial community analysis of swine manure treated with autothermal thermophilic aerobic digestion.Due to the environmental problems associated with disposal of livestock sludge, many stabilization studies emphasizing on the sludge volume reduction were performed. However, little is known about the microbial risk present in sludge and its stabilized products. This study microbiologically explored the effects of anaerobic lagoon fermentation (ALF) and autothermal thermophilic aerobic digestion (ATAD) on pathogen-related risk of raw swine manure by using culture-independent 16S rDNA cloning and sequencing methods. In raw swine manure, clones closely related to pathogens such as Dialister pneumosintes, Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae, Succinivibrioan dextrinosolvens, and Schineria sp. were detected. Meanwhile, in the mesophilic ALF-treated swine manure, bacterial community clones closely related to pathogens such as Schineria sp. and Succinivibrio dextrinosolvens were still detected. Interestingly, the ATAD treatment resulted in no detection of clones closely related to pathogens in the stabilized thermophilic bacterial community, with the predominance of novel Clostridia class populations. These findings support the superiority of ATAD in selectively reducing potential human and animal pathogens compared to ALF, which is a typical manure stabilization method used in livestock farms.

[Fermentative metabolism by the human gut microbiota].The human large intestine is colonized by a complex community of microorganisms, largely composed of strictly anaerobic bacteria with numerous physiological functions which impact on the host nutrition and health. Among these functions, the fermentation of substrates is of major importance for host health through the production of a wide variety of metabolites. The metabolic functions of the human gut microbiota are correlated with the nature of the substrates available for fermentation in the colon. These substrates are from exogenous (dietary fibers that are mainly plant polysaccharides) and endogenous (produced by the host and represent important source of nitrogen) sources. The metabolites produced from the microbial fermentation process in the gut are mainly absorbed and used by the host. Most of them have health benefits, but some may also have deleterious effects. The gut microbiota should thus be considered in relation to its environment, including dietary food and host factors. The interactions between food, intestinal microbiota and the host are fundamental to the maintenance of homeostasis in the ecosystem. Any disruption of this equilibrium could modify the functionality of the gut microbiota and lead to a pathological state.

Characterization of housing-related spontaneous variations of gut microbiota and expression of toll-like receptors 2 and 4 in rats.Gut microbiota has been suggested as a key component of gut homeostasis, affecting immune responses within the gut. We determined changes in intestinal commensal bacteria and expression of toll-like receptors (TLR) 2 and 4 in rats bred under microbiologically controlled conditions (barrier), under standard conditions (conventional), and in barrier animals adapted to standard conditions (barrier/conventional). Cecal microbiota was analyzed by plate culture, and fluorescence in situ hybridization and microbial profiles were assessed by terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism. Cecal expression of TLR-2 and TLR-4 was determined by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Total number of cecal bacteria was similar in the three groups. However, the barrier group showed a higher number of strict anaerobic bacteria (Bacteroides spp. and Clostridium spp.) while Bifidobacterium spp. were scarce. Re-housing the barrier-bred rats into conventional conditions led to a microbiota with intermediate characteristics between the barrier and conventional groups. Richness of the cecal microbial ecosystem was similar in the three groups, although a relative time-dependent variation, with highest homogeneity in the barrier group, was observed. Expression levels of TLR-2 and TLR-4 had no clear correlation with the microbiota. These results show that the relative composition of the cecal microbiota in rats varies spontaneously with changes in the environmental conditions, with minor impact in the expression of TLR-2 and TLR-4. These observations might be important in the understanding of variability in animal responses, particularly to immune-related stimuli, when assessed in the context of the environmental/microbiological conditions.

Bacterial, SCFA and gas profiles of a range of food ingredients following in vitro fermentation by human colonic microbiota.It is now apparent that there is a strong link between health and nutrition and this can be seen clearly when we talk of obesity. The food industry is trying to capitalise on this by adapting high sugar/fat foods to become healthier alternatives. In confectionery food ingredients can be used for a range of purposes including sucrose replacement. Many of these ingredients may also evade digestion in the upper gut and be fermented by the gut microbiota upon entering the colon. This study was designed to screen a range of ingredients and their activities on the gut microbiota. In this study we screened a range of these ingredients in triplicate batch culture fermentations with known prebiotics as controls. Changes in bacteriology were monitored using FISH. SCFA were measured by GC and gas production was assessed during anaerobic batch fermentations. Bacterial enumeration showed significant increases (P < or = 0.05) in bifidobacteria and lactobacilli with polydextrose and most polyols with no significant increases in Clostridium histolyticum/perfringens. SCFA and gas formation indicated that the substrates added to the fermenters were being utilised by the gut microbiota. It therefore appears these ingredients exert some prebiotic activity in vitro. Further studies, particularly in human volunteers, are necessary.

Investigation of the intestinal microbiota in preterm infants using different methods.Modifications in microbial colonization of the human gut are believed to affect intestinal homeostasis and increase the risk of gastrointestinal diseases. The present study examined different methods for investigating the dynamic characterization of the intestinal microbiota in preterm infants. Fecal samples were collected weekly from ten preterm infants during their stay in a neonatal intensive care unit. The infants had a mean gestational age of 29 weeks (range: 28-32 weeks) and a mean birth weight of 1233g (range: 935-1450g). Bacterial colonization was assessed using conventional culture techniques and molecular biological methods. More specifically, the recently developed denaturing high performance liquid chromatography (dHPLC) technique was compared to established methods such as temporal temperature gradient gel electrophoresis (TTGE) and rRNA gene library sequencing. Our results indicate that the gastrointestinal tract of preterm infants, born at a gestational age of less than 33 weeks, has a low biodiversity of mainly, culturable bacteria. Finally, dHPLC was evaluated in terms of speed, labor and sensitivity for its use as a tool to analyze microbial colonization in preterm infants. We found that this technique provided major improvements over gel-based fingerprinting methods, such as TTGE, that are commonly used for studying microbial ecology. As such, it may become a common analytical tool for this purpose.

The role of intestinal microbiota in the development and severity of chemotherapy-induced mucositis.Mucositis, also referred to as mucosal barrier injury, is one of the most debilitating side effects of radiotherapy and chemotherapy treatment. Clinically, mucositis is associated with pain, bacteremia, and malnutrition. Furthermore, mucositis is a frequent reason to postpone chemotherapy treatment, ultimately leading towards a higher mortality in cancer patients. According to the model introduced by Sonis, both inflammation and apoptosis of the mucosal barrier result in its discontinuity, thereby promoting bacterial translocation. According to this five-phase model, the intestinal microbiota plays no role in the pathophysiology of mucositis. However, research has implicated a prominent role for the commensal intestinal microbiota in the development of several inflammatory diseases like inflammatory bowel disease, pouchitis, and radiotherapy-induced diarrhea. Furthermore, chemotherapeutics have a detrimental effect on the intestinal microbial composition (strongly decreasing the numbers of anaerobic bacteria), coinciding in time with the development of chemotherapy-induced mucositis. We hypothesize that the commensal intestinal microbiota might play a pivotal role in chemotherapy-induced mucositis. In this review, we propose and discuss five pathways in the development of mucositis that are potentially influenced by the commensal intestinal microbiota: 1) the inflammatory process and oxidative stress, 2) intestinal permeability, 3) the composition of the mucus layer, 4) the resistance to harmful stimuli and epithelial repair mechanisms, and 5) the activation and release of immune effector molecules. Via these pathways, the commensal intestinal microbiota might influence all phases in the Sonis model of the pathogenesis of mucositis. Further research is needed to show the clinical relevance of restoring dysbiosis, thereby possibly decreasing the degree of intestinal mucositis.

Through ageing, and beyond: gut microbiota and inflammatory status in seniors and centenarians.Age-related physiological changes in the gastrointestinal tract, as well as modifications in lifestyle, nutritional behaviour, and functionality of the host immune system, inevitably affect the gut microbiota, resulting in a greater susceptibility to infections.
By using the Human Intestinal Tract Chip (HITChip) and quantitative PCR of 16S rRNA genes of Bacteria and Archaea, we explored the age-related differences in the gut microbiota composition among young adults, elderly, and centenarians, i.e subjects who reached the extreme limits of the human lifespan, living for over 100 years. We observed that the microbial composition and diversity of the gut ecosystem of young adults and seventy-years old people is highly similar but differs significantly from that of the centenarians. After 100 years of symbiotic association with the human host, the microbiota is characterized by a rearrangement in the Firmicutes population and an enrichment in facultative anaerobes, notably pathobionts. The presence of such a compromised microbiota in the centenarians is associated with an increased inflammatory status, also known as inflammageing, as determined by a range of peripheral blood inflammatory markers. This may be explained by a remodelling of the centenarians' microbiota, with a marked decrease in Faecalibacterium prauznitzii and relatives, symbiotic species with reported anti-inflammatory properties. As signature bacteria of the long life we identified specifically Eubacterium limosum and relatives that were more than ten-fold increased in the centenarians.
We provide evidence for the fact that the ageing process deeply affects the structure of the human gut microbiota, as well as its homeostasis with the host's immune system. Because of its crucial role in the host physiology and health status, age-related differences in the gut microbiota composition may be related to the progression of diseases and frailty in the elderly population.

Feed supplementation of Lactobacillus plantarum PCA 236 modulates gut microbiota and milk fatty acid composition in dairy goats--a preliminary study.This study aimed to evaluate the potential of a promising Lactobacillus plantarum isolate (PCA 236) from cheese as a probiotic feed supplement in lactating goats. The ability of L. plantarum to survive transit through the goat gastrointestinal tract and to modulate selected constituents of the gut microbiota composition, monitored at faecal level was assessed. In addition, L. plantarum effects on plasma immunoglobulins and antioxidant capacity of the animals as well as on the milk fatty acid composition were determined. For the purpose of the experiment a field study was designed, involving 24 dairy goats of the Damascus breed, kept in a sheep and goat dairy farm. The goats were divided in terms of body weight in two treatments of 12 goats each, namely: control (CON) without addition of L. plantarum and probiotic (PRO) treatment with in feed administration of L. plantarum so that the goats would intake 12 log CFU/day. The experiment lasted 5 weeks and at weekly time intervals individual faecal, blood and milk samples were collected and analysed. All faecal samples were examined for the presence of L. plantarum PCA 236. In addition, the culturable population levels of mesophilic aerobes, coliforms lactic acid bacteria (LAB), Streptococcus, Enterococcus, mesophilic anaerobes, Clostridium and Bacteroides in faeces were also determined by enumeration on specific culture media. In parallel, plasma IgA, IgM and IgG and antioxidant capacity of plasma and milk were determined. No adverse effects were observed in the animals receiving the lactobacillus during the experiment. Lactobacillus plantarum PCA 236 was recovered in the faeces of all animals in the PRO treatment. In addition, PRO treatment resulted in a significant (P<or=0.05) increase in LAB coupled with a significant decrease in faecal clostridia populations compared to the CON treatment. The antioxidant capacity and the concentrations of immunoglobulins IgA, IgM and IgG in goat plasma did not differ between the treatments. In contrast, milk fat composition in the PRO treatment had a significantly higher content of polyunsaturated fatty acids such as linoleic, a-linolenic and rumenic acids compared to CON, while there were no differences in milk antioxidant capacity. The results obtained in this study, indicate that the L. plantarum PCA 236 strain has displayed an interesting probiotic potential, in terms of beneficially modulating the goat faecal microbiota and milk fatty acid composition that needs to be further researched.

Impact of digestive and oropharyngeal decontamination on the intestinal microbiota in ICU patients.Selective digestive microbial decontamination (SDD) is hypothesized to benefit patients in intensive care (ICU) by suppressing Gram-negative potential pathogens from the colon without affecting the anaerobic intestinal microbiota. The purpose of this study was to provide more insight to the effects of digestive tract and oropharyngeal decontamination on the intestinal microbiota by means of a prospective clinical trial in which faecal samples were collected from ICU patients for intestinal microbiota analysis.
The faecal samples were collected from ICU patients enrolled in a multicentre trial to study the outcome of SDD and selective oral decontamination (SOD) in comparison with standard care (SC). Fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) was used to analyze the faecal microbiota. The numbers of bacteria from different bacterial groups were compared between the three regimens.
The total counts of bacteria per gram faeces did not differ between regimens. The F. prausnitzii group of bacteria, representing an important group among intestinal microbiota, was significantly reduced in the SDD regimen compared to the SC and SOD. The Enterobacteriaceae were significantly suppressed during SDD compared to both SOD and SC; enterococci increased in SDD compared to both other regimens.
The composition of the intestinal microbiota is importantly affected by SDD. The F. prausnitzii group was significantly suppressed during SDD. This group of microbiota is a predominant producer of butyrate, the main energy source for colonocytes. Reduction of this microbiota is an important trade-off while reducing gram-negative bacteria by SDD.

The taxophysiological paradox: changes in the intestinal microbiota of the xylophagous cockroach Cryptocercus punctulatus depending on the physiological state of the host.The phylogenetic relationships of symbiotic bacteria from the xylophagous cockroach Cryptocercus (Cryptocercidae, Blattaria) were compared to those described in previous reports in lower termites. The 16S rDNA bacterial genes were PCR-amplified from DNA isolated from the entire hindgut using Bacteria-selective primers, and the 16S rDNA amplicons were cloned into Escherichia coli. The changes in the gut microbiota of Cryptocercus under three physiological conditions, "active," "fasting," and "dead," were studied. Analysis of the active-clone library revealed 45 new phylotypes (clones sharing >97% sequence identity were grouped into the same phylotype) from 54 analyzed clones. The clones were affiliated with the phyla Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, Proteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Spirochaetes, Synergistetes, Verrucomicrobia, and candidate phylum Termite Group 1 (TG1). Clones belonging to Spirochaetes, Bacteroidetes, and TG1 phyla clustered with previously reported sequences obtained from the guts of several termites, suggesting that these clones are common constituents of the intestinal microbiota of lower termites and Cryptocercus. In the fasting-clone library, 19 new phylotypes, from 49 clones studied, were distinguished. The new phylotypes were affiliated with the phyla Bacteroidetes, Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, Spirochaetes, Synergistetes, and the candidate phylum TM7. Finally, in the dead-clone library, 24 new phylotypes from 50 studied clones were found. The new phylotypes were affiliated with the phyla Firmicutes, Actinobacteria, and Proteobacteria. Thus, from active, to fasting, to dead physiological states, a decrease in the number of phyla present in the whole microbial gut was evident. However, in the dead physiological state, each phylum conserved contained more new phylotypes. This poses a taxophysiological paradox, because a stable, active physiological state of Cryptocercus-due to a continuous input of wood-supports a higher diversity of bacterial phyla, probably necessary to maintain a sharp O(2)-H(2) gradient in the gut. By contrast, in the dead state, nutrient input is limited to the residual gut microbiota that is killed by the newly oxic environment, thus providing a food source for other, aerobic or facultative anaerobic bacteria. This results in an increase in the internal diversity of the few remaining phyla.

Human intestinal microbiota and healthy ageing.Earlier studies have indicated a decrease in anaerobes and bifidobacteria and a concomitant increase in enterobacteria in the intestinal microbiota with ageing. However, new data obtained with molecular techniques suggests decreased stability and increased diversity of the gut microbiota with advancing age. Further, no simple marker change in microbiota composition can be identified. Except for the reduced immune function, ageing itself may have relatively little effect on overall gastrointestinal function. Concomitant changes in nutrition, increased incidence of disease and corresponding use of medication with advancing age modify the composition of the microbial community of the gastrointestinal tract. This mini-review will focus on the recent findings on the gut microbiota of the elderly and on the potential benefits of probiotics, prebiotics and synbiotics.

Human gut microbiome adopts an alternative state following small bowel transplantation.Small bowel transplants provide an exceptional opportunity for long-term study of the microbial ecology of the human small bowel. The ileostomy created at time of transplant for ongoing monitoring of the allograft provides access to samples of ileal effluent and mucosal biopsies. In this study, we used qPCR to assay the bacterial population of the small bowel lumen of 17 small bowel transplant patients over time. Surprisingly, the posttransplant microbial community was found to be dominated by Lactobacilli and Enterobacteria, both typically facultative anaerobes. This represents an inversion of the normal community that is dominated instead by the strictly anaerobic Bacteroides and Clostridia. We found this inverted community also in patients with ileostomies who did not receive a transplant, suggesting that the ileostomy itself is the primary ecological determinant shaping the microbiota. After surgical closure of the ileostomy, the community reverted to the normal structure. Therefore, we hypothesized that the ileostomy allows oxygen into the otherwise anaerobic distal ileum, thus driving the transition from one microbial community structure to another. Supporting this hypothesis, metabolomic profiling of both communities demonstrated an enrichment for metabolites associated with aerobic respiration in samples from patients with open ileostomies. Viewed from an ecological perspective, the two communities constitute alternative stable states of the human ileum. That the small bowel appears to function normally despite these dramatic shifts suggests that its ecological resilience is greater than previously realized.

The microbiota in inflammatory bowel disease in different age groups.Many efforts were made in the past decades to assess the role of gut microbiota in inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), leading to the hypothesis that an altered microbial composition, other than the presence of a specific pathogen, could be involved in the pathogenesis of the disease. On the other hand, existing differences in gut microbial community between distinct classes of age make sense of an increasing research in microbial shifts in IBD.
Cultural, molecular, metabolomic and metagenomic approaches are trying to define the human gut microbiota in different age groups.
An increase in anaerobic bacteria (Bacteroidesvulgatus, Streptococcus faecalis) was observed in adult IBD, whereas an increase in aerobic and facultative-anaerobic (Escherichia coli) was found in pediatric IBD. Overall higher bacterial cell counts were observed in IBD, jointly with a general loss of biodiversity and a preponderance of Bacteroidetes and a parallel decrease of Firmicutes phylum: a predominance of potential harmful members of Proteobacteria (E. coli) and low abundance of beneficial species (Faecalibacterium prausnitzii) was also reported in pediatric and adult age groups, respectively. Microbial community of elderly subjects contains a wider range of different species than those of children and adults, both in healthy and IBD status.

Microbial diversity in ostrich ceca as revealed by 16S ribosomal RNA gene clone library and detection of novel Fibrobacter species.The ostrich (Struthio camelus) is a herbivorous bird and although the hindgut is known as the site for fiber digestion, little is known about the microbial diversity in the ostrich hindgut. Our aim was to analyze the microbial diversity in ostrich ceca using a 16S ribosomal RNA gene (rDNA) clone library approach. A total of 310 clones were sequenced and phylogenetically analyzed and were classified into 110 operational taxonomy units (OTUs) based on a 98% similarity criterion. The similarity of the sequences ranged from 86 to 99% and 95 OTUs had less than 98% similarity to the sequences in the public databases. Coverage and the Shannon-Wiener index (H') of the library were 83.9% and 4.29, respectively. The sequences were assigned to the following 6 phyla: Firmicutes (50.9% of the total number of sequences), Bacteroidetes (39.4%), Fibrobacteres (6.5%), Euryarchaeota (1.9%), Spirochaetes (1.0%), and Verrucomicrobia (0.3%); approximately 90% of the sequences were affiliated with Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes. The only OTU of Fibrobacteres (OTU 107), had 93 and 90% similarity to Fibrobacter succinogenes and F. intestinalis, respectively, suggesting a new species of Fibrobacter in ostrich ceca. Clostridium coccoides and C. leptum formed major groups within the Firmicutes. There was no OTU with high similarity (> or =98%) to the 16S rDNA of cultivated fibrolytic bacteria in our library. Although two OTUs were affiliated with Euryarchaeota, no sequence was affiliated with methanogenic Archaea. This study presents the very complex ostrich cecal microbial community, in which the majority of the bacterial species have not yet been cultivated.

Metagenomics in animal gastrointestinal ecosystem: Potential biotechnological prospects.Microbial metagenomics---the applications of the genomics suit of technologies to nonculturable microorganisms, is coming of age. These approaches can be used for the screening and identification of nonculturable gastrointestinal (GI) microflora for assessing and exploiting them in nutrition and the health of the host. Advances in technologies designed to access this wealth of genetic information through environmental nucleic acids extraction and analysis have provided the means of overcoming the limitations of conventional culture-dependent microbial genetic exploitation. The molecular techniques and bioinformatics tools will result in reliable insights into the animals' GI microbial structure and activity of the livestock gut microbes in relation to functional interactions, temporal and spatial relationships among different microbial consortia and dietary ingredients. Further developments and applications of these methods promise to provide the opportunity to link distribution and identity of various GI microbes in their natural habitats, and explore their use for promoting livestock health and industrial development.

Genomics of oral bacteria.Advances in bacterial genetics came with the discovery of the genetic code, followed by the development of recombinant DNA technologies. Now the field is undergoing a new revolution because of investigators' ability to sequence and assemble complete bacterial genomes. Over 200 genome projects have been completed or are in progress, and the oral microbiology research community has benefited through projects for oral bacteria and their non-oral-pathogen relatives. This review describes features of several oral bacterial genomes, and emphasizes the themes of species relationships, comparative genomics, and lateral gene transfer. Genomics is having a broad impact on basic research in microbial pathogenesis, and will lead to new approaches in clinical research and therapeutics. The oral microbiota is a unique community especially suited for new challenges to sequence the metagenomes of microbial consortia, and the genomes of uncultivable bacteria.

A Review on Performance Improvement of Anaerobic Digestion Using Co-Digestion of Food Waste and Sewage Sludge.Anaerobic co-digestion (AcoD) is a vital technology in the decarburization of the economy because of its ability to process organic waste, recover nutrients, and create biogas as a sustainable biofuel all at the same time. This attribute also makes this technology a viable partner in pursuing a circular economic model. However, the poor biogas output of typical substrates like sewage sludge and animal manure and the hefty installation costs limit its viability. This review paper with literature analysis provides a good grasp of the anaerobic co-digesting process with diverse food digestion methods. In this survey, we have analyzed the Anaerobic Digestion of water waste, food waste, and animal manure and the anaerobic co-digestion of animal waste with water waste and food waste with water waste. This analysis demonstrates that anaerobic co-digestion produces more methane biogas than anaerobic digestion. Also, it has been shown that by adjusting the ratio of food and animal waste to water waste, we can produce more methane. In the future, we would like to supplement anaerobic co-digestion by altering the proportion of different wastes that are mixed with water waste in order to increase methane production.

Use of regression models for development of a simple and effective biogas decision-support tool.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is an alternative way to treat manure while producing biogas as a renewable fuel. To increase the efficiency of AD performance, accurate prediction of biogas yield in different working conditions is necessary. In this study, regression models were developed to estimate biogas production from co-digesting swine manure (SM) and waste kitchen oil (WKO) at mesophilic temperatures. A dataset was collected from the semi-continuous AD studies across nine treatments of SM and WKO, evaluated at 30, 35 and 40 °C. Application of polynomial regression models and variable interactions with the selected data resulted in an adjusted R value of 0.9656, much higher than the simple linear regression model (R = 0.7167). The significance of the model was observed with the mean absolute percentage error score of 4.16%. Biogas estimation using the final model resulted in a difference between predicted and actual values from 0.2 to 6.7%, except for one treatment which was 9.8% different than observed. A spreadsheet was created to estimate biogas production and other operational factors using substrate loading rates and temperature settings. This user-friendly program could be used as a decision-support tool to provide recommendations for some working conditions and estimation of the biogas yield under different scenarios.

Assessment of aging of anaerobic digester paddle-mixer material: experimental studies and long-term numerical simulation.In this study, experimental tests and numerical simulations (Abaqus) were performed to examine the durability of four impeller materials [steel, polyethylene, polypropylene and glass fiber reinforced polymer (GFRP)] in an anaerobic digester environment. Specimens of these materials were prepared and immersed in a bath containing anaerobic digester liquor while operated at 40 °C for a period of 8 months. Periodically (2, 4, 6 and 8 months) sample specimens were removed from the bath and the tensile strength and elastic modulus were determined. As expected, thermoplastic materials and especially GFRP exceeded higher absorption of moisture than steel, although aging effect on steel was more pronounced due to corrosion, as evidenced by SEM imaging. The results demonstrate that polyethylene was not acceptable as construction material for anaerobic digester paddle mixer. On the contrary steel, GFRP and PP remained highly unaffected with a negligible increase of the maximum stress, 1.6%, 0.9% and 3.0%, respectively.

Effects of Magnetic Biochar Addition on Mesophilic Anaerobic Digestion of Sewage Sludge.As a low-cost additive to anaerobic digestion (AD), magnetic biochar (MBC) can act as an electron conductor to promote electron transfer to enhance biogas production performance in the AD process of sewage sludge and has thus attracted much attention in research and industrial applications. In the present work,  (COS) was used to produce MBC as an additive for mesophilic AD of sewage sludge, in order to explore the effect of MBC on the mesophilic AD process and its enhancement mechanism. Analysis by scanning electron microscopy (SEM), energy dispersive X-ray spectroscopy (EDS), Fourier-transform infrared spectrometry (FTIR), and X-ray diffraction (XRD) further confirmed that biochar was successfully magnetized. The yield of biogas from sewage sludge was enhanced by 14.68-39.24% with the addition of MBC, and the removal efficiency of total solid (TS), volatile solids (VS), and soluble chemical oxygen demand (sCOD) were 28.99-46.13%, 32.22-48.62%, and 84.18-86.71%, respectively. According to the Modified Gompertz Model and Cone Model, the optimum dosage of MBC was 20 mg/g TS. The maximum methane production rate (R) was 15.58% higher than that of the control reactor, while the lag-phase (λ) was 43.78% shorter than the control group. The concentration of soluble Fe and Fe were also detected in this study to analyze the function of MBC for improving biogas production performance from sewage sludge. The biogas production was increased when soluble Fe was reduced to soluble Fe. Overall, the MBC was beneficial to the resource utilization of COS and showed a good prospect for improving mesophilic AD performance.

13
Elucidating dynamic anaerobe metabolism with HRMAS C NMR and genome-scale modeling.Anaerobic microbial metabolism drives critical functions within global ecosystems, host-microbiota interactions, and industrial applications, yet remains ill-defined. Here we advance a versatile approach to elaborate cellular metabolism in obligate anaerobes using the pathogen Clostridioides difficile, an amino acid and carbohydrate-fermenting Clostridia. High-resolution magic angle spinning nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy of C. difficile, grown with fermentable C substrates, informed dynamic flux balance analysis (dFBA) of the pathogen's genome-scale metabolism. Analyses identified dynamic recruitment of oxidative and supporting reductive pathways, with integration of high-flux amino acid and glycolytic metabolism at alanine's biosynthesis to support efficient energy generation, nitrogen handling and biomass generation. Model predictions informed an approach leveraging the sensitivity of C NMR spectroscopy to simultaneously track cellular carbon and nitrogen flow from [U-C]glucose and [N]leucine, confirming the formation of [C,N]alanine. Findings identify metabolic strategies used by C. difficile to support its rapid colonization and expansion in gut ecosystems.

In vitro models to measure effects on intestinal deconjugation and transport of mixtures of bile acids.Bile acid metabolism and transport are critical to maintain bile acid homeostasis and host health. In this study, it was investigated if effects on intestinal bile acid deconjugation and transport can be quantified in vitro model systems using mixtures of bile acids instead of studying individual bile acids. To this end deconjugation of mixtures of selected bile acids in anaerobic rat or human fecal incubations and the effect of the antibiotic tobramycin on these reactions was studied. In addition, the effect of tobramycin on the transport of the bile acids in isolation or in a mixture across Caco-2 cell layers was characterized. The results demonstrate that both the reduction of bile acid deconjugation and transport by tobramycin can be adequately detected in vitro systems using a mixture of bile acids, thus eliminating the need to characterize the effects for each bile acid in separate experiments. Subtle differences between the experiments with single or combined bile acids point at mutual competitive interactions and indicate that the use of bile acid mixtures is preferred over use of single bile acid given that also in vivo bile acids occurs in mixtures.

Molecular insights informing factors affecting low temperature anaerobic applications: Diversity, collated core microbiomes and complexity stability relationships in LCFA-fed systems.Fats, oil and grease, and their hydrolyzed counterparts-long chain fatty acids (LCFA) make up a large fraction of numerous wastewaters and are challenging to degrade anaerobically, more so, in low temperature anaerobic digestion (LtAD) systems. Herein, we perform a comparative analysis of publicly available Illumina 16S rRNA datasets generated from LCFA-degrading anaerobic microbiomes at low temperatures (10 and 20 °C) to comprehend the factors affecting microbial community dynamics. The various factors considered were the inoculum, substrate and operational characteristics, the reactor operation mode and reactor configuration, and the type of nucleic acid sequenced. We found that LCFA-degrading anaerobic microbiomes were differentiated primarily by inoculum characteristics (inoculum source and morphology) in comparison to the other factors tested. Inoculum characteristics prominently shaped the species richness, species evenness and beta-diversity patterns in the microbiomes even after long term operation of continuous reactors up to 150 days, implying the choice of inoculum needs careful consideration. The generalised additive models represented through beta diversity contour plots revealed that psychrophilic bacteria RBG-13-54-9 from family Anaerolineae, and taxa WCHB1-41 and Williamwhitmania were highly abundant in LCFA-fed microbial niches, suggesting their role in anaerobic treatment of LCFAs at low temperatures of 10-20 °C. Overall, we showed that the following bacterial genera: uncultured Propionibacteriaceae, Longilinea, Christensenellaceae R7 group, Lactivibrio, candidatus Caldatribacterium, Aminicenantales, Syntrophus, Syntrophomonas, Smithella, RBG-13-54-9, WCHB1-41, Trichococcus, Proteiniclasticum, SBR1031, Lutibacter and Lentimicrobium have prominent roles in LtAD of LCFA-rich wastewaters at 10-20 °C. This study provides molecular insights of anaerobic LCFA degradation under low temperatures from collated datasets and will aid in improving LtAD systems for treating LCFA-rich wastewaters.

Impact of Vancomycin Treatment and Gut Microbiota on Bile Acid Metabolism and the Development of Non-Alcoholic Steatohepatitis in Mice.The potential roles of the gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease, including non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH), have attracted increased interest. We have investigated the links between gut microbiota and NASH development in Tsumura-Suzuki non-obese mice fed a high-fat/cholesterol/cholate-based (iHFC) diet that exhibit advanced liver fibrosis using antibiotic treatments. The administration of vancomycin, which targets Gram-positive organisms, exacerbated the progression of liver damage, steatohepatitis, and fibrosis in iHFC-fed mice, but not in mice fed a normal diet. F4/80-recruited macrophages were more abundant in the liver of vancomycin-treated iHFC-fed mice. The infiltration of CD11c-recruited macrophages into the liver, forming hepatic crown-like structures, was enhanced by vancomycin treatment. The co-localization of this macrophage subset with collagen was greatly augmented in the liver of vancomycin-treated iHFC-fed mice. These changes were rarely seen with the administration of metronidazole, which targets anaerobic organisms, in iHFC-fed mice. Finally, the vancomycin treatment dramatically modulated the level and composition of bile acid in iHFC-fed mice. Thus, our data demonstrate that changes in inflammation and fibrosis in the liver by the iHFC diet can be modified by antibiotic-induced changes in gut microbiota and shed light on their roles in the pathogenesis of advanced liver fibrosis.

Application of the biogas residue of anaerobic co-digestion of gentamicin mycelial residues and wheat straw as soil amendment: Focus on nutrients supply, soil enzyme activities and antibiotic resistance genes.Land utilization of the biogas residue (BR) produced by anaerobic co-digestion of gentamicin mycelial residues (GMRs) and wheat straw is a promising method to achieve the deep recycling of GMRs. This study evaluated the feasibility and efficacy of application of using BR as a soil amendment by using a pot experiment. Results indicated that BR could improve the soil fertility better than commercial chicken manure fertilizer (CMF) in terms of the soil enzyme activities and nutrients supply. Random Forest (RF) model was applied to predict soil enzyme activities and identify key influencing factors. Combining the Random Forest (RF) model with the Three-dimensional Excitation-emission Matrix and Parallel Factor (3D-EEM-PARAFAC) analysis, revealing that humic-like substances provided by BR protected soil enzymes, thus improving soil fertility. Furthermore, gentamicin and antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs)/mobile genetic elements (MEGs) introduced by BR decreased greatly after cultivation, implying a low risk of antimicrobial resistance. This study suggested that reasonable application of BR could improve soil nutrients supply, soil enzyme activity and control antimicrobial resistance risk.

Tree-based machine learning model for visualizing complex relationships between biochar properties and anaerobic digestion.The ideal conditions for anaerobic digestion experiments with biochar addition are challenging to thoroughly study due to different experimental purposes. Therefore, three tree-based machine learning models were developed to depict the intricate connection between biochar properties and anaerobic digestion. For the methane yield and maximum methane production rate, the gradient boosting decision tree produced R values of 0.84 and 0.69, respectively. According to feature analysis, digestion time and particle size had a substantial impact on the methane yield and production rate, respectively. When particle sizes were in the range of 0.3-0.5 mm and the specific surface area was approximately 290 m/g, corresponding to a range of O content (>31%) and biochar addition (>20 g/L), the maximum promotion of methane yield and maximum methane production rate were attained. Therefore, this study presents new insights into the effects of biochar on anaerobic digestion through tree-based machine learning.

Integrating biokinetics with computational fluid dynamics for energy performance analysis in anaerobic digestion.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is an effective process for decomposing organic matter in wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) where highly efficient digesters properly mix the sludge. To ensure a uniform substance distribution, a comprehensive modeling method is necessary. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) helps in the modeling of AD tanks but few studies have focused on integrating hydrodynamics with biokinetics because of complex AD processes. The current study presents a new CFD platform for estimating the biokinetics of WWTPs to assess the energy performance of AD tanks. The presented method is validated by numerical and experimental studies, and facilitates a link between methane production and mixing energy consumption. The on-site settings of the recirculation mixing system in the studied WWTP was able to prepare a uniform mixture of the material. However, reducing mixing rate to decrease energy consumption did not lead to proper mixing quality.

Machine learning for quantile regression of biogas production rates in anaerobic digesters.Anaerobic digestion is a well-established tool at wastewater treatment plants for processing raw sludge; it can also be used to generate renewable energy by harvesting biogas in anaerobic digesters. Operational parameters, such as temperature, are usually set by plant operators according to expert knowledge. To completely utilize the potential of operational management, in this study, we calibrated a novel Temporal Fusion Transformer based on six years of life-scale time series data together with categorical features such as public holidays. The model design allows for the interpretability of the output in contrast to traditional data-driven techniques, using multi-head attention. In addition to forecasting the median biogas production rates for the following seven days, our model also yields quantiles, making it less prone to strong fluctuations. We used three well-known statistical techniques as benchmarks. The mean absolute percentage error of our forecasting approach is below 8 %.

Fluorescence-Activating and Absorption-Shifting Nanoprobes for Anaerobic Tracking of Gut Microbiota Derived Vesicles.Outer membrane vesicles (OMVs) are crucial for bacterial intercellular communication and the crosstalk between the gut microbiota and its host. Methods capable of visualizing gut microbiota derived OMVs would be of great significance but have been rarely reported. Here, nanoprobes carrying a fluorescence-activating and absorption-shifting tag are prepared by combining genetic engineering and antibiotic-boosted vesicle formation and release. Benefiting from their natural structure and molecular oxygen-independent emission, the resulting nanovesicles can be applied as endogenous fluorescence probes to anaerobically track gut microbiota associated OMVs. These nanoprobes show flexibility in on-demand fluorescence turn-on/off and reversibly switchable emission bands for intelligent and dual-color imaging. With these special characteristics, the behaviors of microbiota OMVs to not only inhibit specific pathogenic strains through membrane fusion but also repair the intestinal barrier  entering intestinal epithelia and promoting the expressions of tight junctions are tracked and identified in the gut. Based on these discoveries, OMVs are disclosed to be able to remit inflammation in a murine model of colitis following transplantation to the intestine by oral delivery. This work provides an approach to visualize the dynamics of the gut microbiota and disclose potential targets for disease intervention.

Development of an artificial intelligence-based framework for biogas generation from a micro anaerobic digestion plant.Despite the advantages of the Anaerobic Digestion (AD) technology for organic waste management, low system performance in biogas production negatively affects the wide spread of this technology. This paper develops a new artificial intelligence-based framework to predict and optimise the biogas generated from a micro-AD plant. The framework comprises some main steps including data collection and imputation, recurrent neural network/ Non-Linear Autoregressive Exogenous (NARX) model, shuffled frog leaping algorithm (SFLA) optimisation model and sensitivity analysis. The suggested framework was demonstrated by its application on a real micro-AD plant in London. The NARX model was developed for predicting yielded biogas based on the feeding data over preceding days in which their lag times were fine-tuned using the SFLA. The optimal daily feeding pattern to obtain maximum biogas generation was determined using the SFLA. The results show that the developed framework can improve the productivity of biogas in optimal operation strategy by 43 % compared to business as usual and the average biogas produced can raise from 3.26 to 4.34 m/day. The optimal feeding pattern during a four-day cycle is to feed over the last two days and thereby reducing the operational costs related to the labour for feeding the plant in the first two days. The results of the sensitivity analysis show the optimised biogas generation is strongly influenced by the content of oats and catering waste as well as the optimal allocated day for adding feed to the main digester compared to other feed variables e.g., added water and soaked liner.

Metaheuristic optimization of data preparation and machine learning hyperparameters for prediction of dynamic methane production.Machine learning algorithms provide detailed description of the anaerobic digestion process, but the impact of data preparation procedures and hyperparameter optimization has rarely been investigated. A genetic algorithm was developed for optimizing data preparation and model hyperparameters to simulate dynamic methane production from steady-state anaerobic digestion of agricultural residues at full-scale. A long short-term memory neural network was used as prediction model. Results indicate that batch size, learning rate and number of neurons are the most important model parameters for accurate description of methane production rates, whereas combination of hyperparameter and data preparation optimization shows best model efficiencies, with a root mean square scaled error of 76.5 %. Mass of solid feed, time and mass of volatile solids are the most relevant input features. This study provides fundamental steps for optimal prediction of dynamic biomethane production, as a reliable basis for improving bioconversion efficiency during anaerobic digestion of agricultural residues.

A bi-level optimized approach for promoting the mixed treatment of municipal sludge and food waste.The mixed treatment of municipal sludge and food waste can generate renewable energy, solve the environmental and economic challenges caused by this waste, and has attracted significant research attention. Using environmentally friendly anaerobic co-digestion of municipal sludge and food waste can improve the effects of anaerobic mono-digestion and produce more biogas. However, as the municipal sludge and food waste managers are different, balancing the interests of both managers is needed to encourage anaerobic co-digestion development. By fully considering the interests of the local authority, the waste water treatment plants, and the food waste anaerobic digestion treatment plants, this paper developed a bi-level optimization approach based on Stackelberg equilibrium theory to resolve the conflicts between the different stakeholders, in which uncertain parameters were used to describe the uncertainties. The proposed model was then applied to a real case in Chongqing, China, to test its practicality, and scenario analyses under different policy parameter values were conducted to provide guidance for local authorities, waste water treatment plants, and food waste treatment plants. The proposed approach was found to provide balanced strategies for all three stakeholders, increase the renewable energy output of municipal sludge and food waste treatment 14.2 times, and reduce carbon emissions by 50%, thereby protecting the environment and achieving a circular economy.

Anaerobic Co-Digestion of Pig Manure and Rice Straw: Optimization of Process Parameters for Enhancing Biogas Production and System Stability.The objective of this study was to optimize the process parameters of the anaerobic co-digestion of pig manure and rice straw to maximize methane production and system stability. In this study, batch experiments were conducted with different mixing ratios of pig manure and rice straw (1:0, 1:1, 1:5, 1:10, and 0:1), total solid concentrations (6%, 8%, 10%, 12%, and 14%), and inoculum accounts (5%, 10%, 15%, 20%, and 25%). The results show that a 1:5 mixing ratio of pig manure to rice straw, a 12% total solid content, and a 15% inoculum account yielded biogas up to 553.79 mL/g VS, which was a result of co-digestion increasing the cooperative index (CPI > 1). Likewise, the evolution of the pH and VFAs indicated that the co-digestion system was well-buffered and not easily inhibited by acidification or ammonia nitrogen. Moreover, the results of the Gompertz model's fitting showed that the cumulative methane production, delay period, effective methane production time, and methane production rate under optimal conditions were significantly superior compared to the other groups employed.

[Anaerobic digestion pathways in biochemistry: a teaching practice].Anaerobic digestion is another important anaerobic catabolism pathway besides lactic acid and ethanol fermentation, which is of great significance for recycling resources, maintaining the ecological balance, optimizing the energy structure, alleviating the energy crisis, and promoting the implementation of the "Carbon Peaking and Carbon Neutrality" strategy. However, such an important metabolic process has not been involved in the current textbooks and teaching of biochemistry courses, making the teaching system incomplete. The anaerobic digestion process involves many reactions and complex metabolic pathways. In order to improve the students' understanding to this process, we created a full chart of the whole anaerobic digestion process based on systemic literature review and integrated it into the classroom teaching through the BOPPPS teaching mode. It was found that the classroom teaching assisted by this metabolic chart could help students establish the structural framework of the anaerobic digestion process and enrich the knowledge system of metabolism, achieving a good teaching effect. This paper introduces the content of the metabolic pathways of anaerobic digestion and the design of the teaching process, which would facilitate the teaching reforms and perfection of textbooks for related courses, such as Biochemistry, Environmental Engineering Microbiology and New Energy Engineering.

Modelling and optimization of thermophilic anaerobic digestion using biowaste.Biowaste generation is considerably increasing multiple times recently due to various social and environmental changes like population growth, economic prosperity, globalisation etc. they contain different composition and generated at different stages of their life cycle. Though studies reported for recycle, reproduce and reuse of them, this investigation is unique by focussing to investigate the ideal circumstances for the production of biogas and methane from anaerobic digestion of vegetable waste using response surface methods and artificial neural networks with thermophilic temperature range. Thermophilic temperature of 20.78, organic loading rate of 0.2, pH of 8.81, agitation time of 5.8 and hydro retention time of 3 are the ideal input parameter values for the generation of biogas 3.03 m3 and methane% 186.08 with a desirability of 1. The Response surface model was surpassed by the Artificial Neural Network model.

Applications of artificial intelligence in anaerobic co-digestion: Recent advances and prospects.Anaerobic co-digestion (AcoD) offers several merits such as better digestibility and process stability while enhancing methane yield due to synergistic effects. Operation of an efficient AcoD system, however, requires full comprehension of important operational parameters, such as co-substrates ratio, their composition, volatile fatty acids/alkalinity ratio, organic loading rate, and solids/hydraulic retention time. AcoD process optimization, prediction and control, and early detection of system instability are often difficult to achieve through tedious manual monitoring processes. Recently, artificial intelligence (AI) has emerged as an innovative approach to computational modeling and optimization of the AcoD process. This review discusses AI applications in AcoD process optimization, control, prediction of unknown input/output parameters, and real-time monitoring. Furthermore, the review also compares standalone and hybrid AI algorithms as applied to AcoD. The review highlights future research directions for data preprocessing, model interpretation and validation, and grey-box modeling in AcoD process.

Valorizing prickly pear cladodes via methane-arrested anaerobic digestion for carboxylic acid production.To address climate change, liquid biofuels are an essential alternative to fossil fuels, especially for transportation. The carboxylate platform uses methane-arrested anaerobic digestion (MAAD) to ferment biomass to carboxylic acids, which can be chemically converted to liquid fuels via the carboxylate platform. Most biomass sources require expensive pretreatments to remove lignin; however, prickly pear (Opuntia ficus-indica) cladodes have low lignin content and therefore do not require pretreatment. Furthermore, this sugar-rich feedstock is readily digested to high concentrations of carboxylic acids. At various substrate concentrations, batch MAAD of prickly pear cladodes yielded primarily acetic, butyric, and caproic acids. From these batch data, continuum particle distribution modeling (CPDM) simulated four-stage countercurrent digestion. At a non-acid volatile solid (NAVS) concentration of 100 g/L , CPDM predicts a high total acid concentration of 93 g/L and conversion of 0.93 g NAVS /NAVS at a volatile solid loading rate of 6 g/(L ·d) and liquid retention time of 35 days. Without chemical pretreatment, co-digestion, or in situ product removal, prickly pear produced high yields, biomass conversion, product concentration, and selectivity compared to previously studied lignocellulosic feedstocks.

Integration of anaerobic digestion with heat Pump: Machine learning-based technical and environmental assessment.Anaerobic digestion (AD)-based biogas production mitigates the environmental footprint of organic wastes (e.g., food waste and sewage sludge) and facilitates a circular economy. The work proposed an integrated system where the thermal energy demand of an AD is supplied using an air source heat pump (ASHP). The proposed system is compared to a baseline system, where the thermal energy is supplied by a natural gas-based heating system. Several machine learning models are developed for predicting biogas production, among which the Gaussian Process Regression (GPR) showed a superior performance (R = 0.84 and RMSE = 0.0755 L gVS day). The GPR model further informed a thermodynamic model of the ASHP, which revealed the maximum biogas yield to be approximately 0.585 L.gVS.day at an optimal temperature of 55 °C (thermophilic). Subsequently, life cycle assessment showed that ASHP-based AD heating systems achieved 28.1 % (thermophilic) and 36.8 % (mesophilic) carbon abatement than the baseline system.

Review of explainable machine learning for anaerobic digestion.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a promising technology for recovering value-added resources from organic waste, thus achieving sustainable waste management. The performance of AD is dictated by a variety of factors including system design and operating conditions. This necessitates developing suitable modelling and optimization tools to quantify its off-design performance, where the application of machine learning (ML) and soft computing approaches have received increasing attention. Here, we succinctly reviewed the latest progress in black-box ML approaches for AD modelling with a thrust on global and local model interpretability metrics (e.g., Shapley values, partial dependence analysis, permutation feature importance). Categorical applications of the ML and soft computing approaches such as what-if scenario analysis, fault detection in AD systems, long-term operation prediction, and integration of ML with life cycle assessment are discussed. Finally, the research gaps and scopes for future work are summarized.

Dynamic modeling and parameter estimation of biomethane production from microalgae co-digestion.This work proposes a dynamic modeling procedure applied to biomethane production from microalgae residual co-digestion. A two-stage anaerobic digestion representation is selected, considering acidogenesis and methanogenesis as main reaction pathways. Based on the experimental database generated in the University of Mons Laboratories, several candidate models, assuming the presence or absence of biomass dynamics, are suggested, and parametric structural and local identifiability studies are performed. An original parameter estimation procedure is applied to a data-set partition used for model direct validation. The remaining experiment data are dedicated to cross-validation. The results point out how these dynamic models may serve as advanced monitoring software tools such as digital twins, even in the presence of incomplete process data.

Simulation of integrated anaerobic digestion-gasification systems using machine learning models.In this study, the anaerobic digestion model M-ADM1 was integrated with the gasification model T-ANN to form a set of integrated models that can efficiently simulate the biomass AD-GS integration technology. Biogas slurry is used as feedstocks to prepare biogas slurry fertilizer. Solid residue is used feedstocks for gasification reactions. Biogas and syngas from the gasification of solid residue are used for energy. In this process, carbon emission is regarded as an important index for the comprehensive evaluation and optimization of AD-GS integration process. This study found that when the anaerobic digestion duration was 0 to 15 days, the carbon emission reduction increased rapidly. The amount of carbon emission reduction peaks on day 15. The value of carbon emission reduction is 0.1828 gCOeq. In addition, when FEAG reached the maximum value at 15 days of anaerobic digestion, the decreasing trend of FEAG rate change value started to become significant.

Evaluation of mixing performance and validation of CFD simulations in baffled anaerobic digesters using radiotracer technique.The anaerobic digesters find usage in treating the huge amount of waste such as trash, garbage, human waste and animal waste. The sustained performance of an anaerobic digester depends on the flow pattern and mixing behaviour in the digester. A cylindrical digester tank with vertical baffles can provide flow behaviour approaching that of a plug flow reactor. However, the presence of dead zones and recirculating regions cause non-ideal flow in the digester. In this work, the mixing behaviour in two scaled-down models of baffled digester tanks is characterized by measurement of residence time distribution (RTD) using a radioactive tracer. While the first design has three vertical baffles, the second design include horizontal static flaps on the baffles. The flow behaviour in the digester is also simulated using computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and RTD is obtained computationally. The comparison of RTD curves obtained from CFD simulations with those obtained from radiotracer experiments show good agreement between them. There appear to be only minor difference in the flow behaviour and the RTD curves in the two digester designs. Using the RTD curve data, two commonly used RTD models, tank-in-series and dispersion models, have been fitted and both models are able to predict the RTD in the digester qualitatively.

Effect of metals on mesophilic anaerobic digestion of strawberry extrudate in batch mode.According to recent studies, the anaerobic digestion of strawberry extrudate is a promising option with potential in the berry industry biorefinery. However, the lack and/or unbalance of concentrations of metals in some agro-industrial residues could hamper methane production during the anaerobic digestion of these kinds of wastes. In this study, a fractional factorial design was applied to screen the supplementation requirements regarding six metals (Co, Ni, Fe, Cu, Mn, and Zn) for methane production from strawberry extrudate (SE). The logistic model was used to fit the experimental data of methane production-time. It allowed identifying two different stages in the anaerobic process and obtaining the kinetic parameters for each step. Maximum methane production obtained in the first (B) kinetic stage, the methane production in the second stage (P), and the maximum methane production rates (R) concluded a statistically significant effect for Ni and Zn. The second set of experiments was carried out with Ni and Zn through a central composite design to study the concentration effect in the anaerobic digestion process of the strawberry extrudate. The parameters P and R demonstrated a positive interaction between Ni and Zn. Although, B did not prove a statistically significant effect between Ni and Zn.

Imbalance in ALR ubiquitination accelerates the progression of nonalcoholic steatohepatitis to hepatocellular carcinoma.Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the most common form of primary liver cancer. Accumulating evidence indicates that non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH) is a key predisposing factor for HCC occurrence. However, the precise mechanisms driving NASH transition to HCC remain largely obscure. Augmenter of liver regeneration (ALR) is a sulfhydryl oxidase and cytochrome c reductase that functions as an important regulator of mitochondrial dynamics. In this study, we focused on ALR ubiquitination-mediated degradation and its potential contribution to NASH-driven HCC progression at the mitochondrial level. Hepatic ALR expression in HCC patients was determined using immunohistochemical analysis. Mice with liver-specific deletion of ALR (ALR) and ALR mice were fed a western diet (WD) and high-sugar solution for induction of NASH. HCC in animals was induced via peritoneal administration of CCl. ALR expression was markedly decreased in liver tissues of patients with NASH and HCC compared with non-NASH and non-tumor tissues. Similarly, in ALR mice, the ALR level in tumor tissue was reduced relative to that in para-tumor tissue. In the ALR group, mice fed WD plus CCl developed HCC starting at week 12 while ALR mice fed WD plus CCl developed HCC at week 24. Analysis of protein posttranslational modifications revealed ubiquitylation (Ub) and deubiquitination (DUb) of ALR by murine double minute 2 (MDM2) and ubiquitin-specific protease 36 (USP36), respectively. Imbalance between Ub and DUb of ALR resulted in profound ALR degradation, which appeared to be reversibly associated with Edmondson-Steiner tumor grade. Rescue of ALR levels via gene transfection abolished tumor malignant features to a certain extent in vitro. Notably, ALR deletion substantially enhanced mitochondrial fission by activating Drp1 phosphorylation at Ser616, thus disrupting the balance of mitochondrial dynamics between fission and fusion and severely impairing oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS) and ATP synthesis, instead enhancing anaerobic metabolism, which might be attributed to steatotic hepatocyte transition into the malignant HCC phenotype. Hepatic ALR depletion via dysregulation of ubiquitination is a critical aggravator of NASH-HCC progression and represents a promising therapeutic target for related liver diseases.

Employing micro-aeration in anaerobic digestion of poultry litter and wheat straw: Batch kinetics and continuous performance.In this study, different micro-aeration (MA) strategies for anaerobic digestion (AD) of poultry litter (PL) and wheat straw (WS) were examined. MA at different stages (pretreatment, middle, pretreatment plus middle, and daily) in batch AD of WS showed that daily MA had the highest increase (16.5 %) of the cumulative methane yield (CMY) compared to the control. Batch co-digestion (Co-AD) of WS and PL with daily MA obtained a furtherly improved (15.1 %) CMY of 225.44 N mL CH/g vS . The modified Gompertz model and Cone model were good in fitting the methane yield kinetics of MA engaged AD process (R greater than 0.99). Daily MA shortened the lag phase of Co-AD by 3.4 %. The sequencing batch reactor for the Co-AD of WS and PL showed an increased (21.5 %) daily methane yield when 0.5-h/d MA was employed. The results provided support for the application of micro-aeration in the AD of agricultural wastes.

Conductive materials as fantastic toolkits to stimulate direct interspecies electron transfer in anaerobic digestion: new insights into methanogenesis contribution, characterization technology, and downstream treatment.Direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) stimulated by conductive materials (CMs) enables intercellular metabolic coupling that can address the unfavorable thermodynamical dilemma inherent in anaerobic digestion (AD). Although the DIET mechanism and stimulation have been extensively summarized, the methanogenesis contribution, characterization techniques, and downstream processes of CMs-led DIET in AD are surprisingly under-reviewed. Therefore, this review aimed to address these gaps. First, the contribution of CMs-led DIET to methanogenesis was re-evaluated by comparing the effect of various factors, including volatile fatty acids, free ammonia, and functional enzymes. It was revealed that AD systems are usually intricate and cannot allow the methanogenesis stimulation to be singularly attributed to the establishment of DIET. Additionally, considerable attention has been attached to the characterization of DIET occurrence, involving species identification, gene expression, electrical properties, cellular features, and syntrophic metabolism, suggesting the significance of accurate characterization methods for identifying the syntrophic metabolism interactions. Moreover, the type of CMs has a significant impact on AD downstream processes involving biogas purity, sludge dewaterability, and biosolids management. Finally, the central bottleneck consists in building a mathematical model of DIET to explain the mechanism of DIET in a deeper level from kinetics and thermodynamics.

Gastric bacteria as potential biomarkers for the diagnosis of atrophic gastritis.Identification of the risk factors for atrophic gastritis (AG) and prevention of further deterioration of the gastritis are effective approaches to reduce the incidence of gastric cancer. Previous studies found that dysbiosis has been implicated in a wide range of diseases, while the role of gastric bacteria as a biomarker for AG has not been explored.
Gastric juices from cases with non-atrophic gastritis (NAG) and AG were collected for investigation of bacterial composition and function. The β-diversity of microbiota exhibited a significant reduction in AG samples compared with that in NAG samples. Differential abundance analysis revealed that a total of 23 predicted species changed their distributions; meanwhile, all obligate anaerobic bacteria with a relatively high abundance lowered their contents in AG samples. Additionally, the correlation analysis indicated a clear shift in bacterial correlation pattern between the two groups. Functional interrogation of the gastric microbiota showed that bacterial metabolisms associated with enzyme families, digestive system, and endocrine system were downregulated in AG samples. The compositional dissection of "core microbiota" exhibited that oral pathogens, including Porphyromonas gingivalis, Campylobacter gracilis, and Granulicatella elegans, were magnified in AG samples, suggesting that oral diseases may be a trigger factor for early exacerbation of gastritis. Then, the differentially expressed bacteria were used as diagnostic biomarkers for the random forest classifier model for group prediction.
The results showed that bacterial biomarkers could distinguish AG patients from NAG cases with an accuracy of 90% at the genus level.

Dis-adoption of small-scale biogas plants in Vietnam: what is their fate?Biogas production at a small-scale level through anaerobic digestion has been promoted in Vietnam as an appropriate technology for cooking and animal waste management within rural households. Despite the large number of small-scale biogas plants being built, there is an increase in the reported cases of their dis-adoption. This study attempts to present the state of the art of biogas plants' abandonment issue and reveal the fate of biogas plants. The primary data were collected in Thua Thien Hue province in central Vietnam among owners of small-scale biogas plants selected with the purposive sampling technique. Methods included semi-structured interviews with respondents who abandoned their biogas technology (at least 6 months before the primary data collection) (n = 37) and with respondents who continually use it (n = 62). SPSS 25 IBM was used for the binary logit model with 6 independent variables. Using a logistic regression analysis of various cross-sectional data, key forces were uncovered to determine the factors that can influence the abandonment of biogas technology. Results showed that households with more members working on the farm and those more satisfied with the biogas plant maintenance are less likely to abandon it. Respondents provided the information that their biogas plants mainly were not used for any other purpose after dis-adoption (excepting biogas plants used for further storage of human excreta because they were connected to toilets).

3 2 2
Upgrading the biogas production from raw landfill leachate using O/HO pretreatment process: Modeling, optimization and anaerobic digestion performance.Here, a combined pretreatment oxidation process (O/HO) was investigated to enhance the biodegradability of raw landfill leachate (RLL) and biomethane potential (BMP) in anaerobic reactors. The central composite design (CCD) and response surface methodology (RSM) were employed to optimize the operational parameters influencing on RLL bioavailability in O/HO process: pH, Oxygen Flow rate, Reaction Time, and HO concentration. The findings revealed that the O/HO increased biodegradability index (BOD/COD) of RLL from 0.41 to 0.68 under optimized condition (pH=8, Oxygen flow= 0.25 L.min, Reaction Time= 25 min, HO concentration= 2.5 g.L). Furthermore, the effects of O/HO process on BMP of RLL were surveyed under mesophilic anaerobic reactors (Temperature: 37 ± 1 °C) in viewpoints of operational performance and methane yield in a batch mode for incubation period of 24 days. The results showed that O/HO process simultaneously improve the BMP by 2.99 times higher in a shorter lag-phase period (5 days) compared with control. The pretreatment O/HO and mesophilic anaerobic digestion process revealed a feasible and efficient method for enhance BMP of RLL.

Inoculum-to-substrate ratio and solid content effects over in natura spent coffee grounds anaerobic digestion.Coffee is the second most traded commodity worldwide, and its production is associated with the generation of a large number of residues, which are underused and disposed of in landfills. Notably, the coffee industry annually generates approximately 6 million tons of industrial spent coffee ground (ISCG) when extracting coffee flavorings to produce soluble coffee. That resource loss scenario has been highlighted in sustainable waste management contexts as an opportunity to improve the coffee circular economy. Despite ISCG bioconversion to methane potentially meets the waste-to-energy purposes of reducing residues disposal in landfills, decreasing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, and increasing renewable energy sources, data about anaerobic digestion (AD) of ISCG remains quite restricted. That limitation becomes more apparent owing to the lack of data focusing on AD key parameters for ISCG as substrate. This study assessed the influence of inoculum-to-substrate ratio (ISR) and the solid content influences on mesophilic (37 °C) ISCG-AD throughout the Response Surface Methodology (RSM) and Central Composite Design (CCD). Results revealed that both factors, ISR and solid content, should be kept above a certain threshold of 0.5 and 6.0 gTVS L to ensure experimental reliability, as well as reproductively and above 1.0 and 8.0 gTVS L to avoid underestimation on the MY potential achieved. Concerning ISCG-AD kinetics, the quadratic model optimum condition was at 1.36 and 14.83 gTVS L for ISR and solid content, respectively. This optimum range for ISR and solid content could guide further development of process configurations for mono- and co-digestion of ISCG, avoiding underestimation of the MY potential and extended incubation periods.

2
Energy Crops and Methane: Process Optimization of Ca(OH) Assisted Thermal Pretreatment and Modeling of Methane Production.Switchgrass earned its place globally as a significant energy crop by possessing essential properties such as being able to control erosion, low cost of production, biomass richness, and appeal for biofuel production. In this study, the impact of a Ca(OH)-assisted thermal pretreatment process on the switchgrass variety Shawnee for methane fuel production was investigated. The Ca(OH)-assisted thermal pretreatment process was optimized to enhance the methane production potential of switchgrass. Solid loading (3-7%), Ca(OH) concentration (0-2%), reaction temperature (50-100 °C), and reaction time (6-16 h) were selected as independent variables for the optimization. Methane production was obtained as 248.7 mL CH gVS under the optimized pretreatment conditions. Specifically, a reaction temperature of 100 °C, a reaction time of 6 h, 0% Ca(OH), and 3% solid loading. Compared to raw switchgrass, methane production was enhanced by 14.5%. Additionally, the changes in surface properties and bond structure, along with the kinetic parameters from first order, cone, reaction curve, and modified Gompertz modeling revealed the importance of optimization.

Swine manure treatment technologies as drivers for circular economy in agribusiness: A techno-economic and life cycle assessment approach.Anaerobic digestion has been employed as a technology capable of adding value to waste coupled with environmental impact mitigation. However, many issues need to be elucidated to ensure the systems viability based on this technology. In this sense, the present study evaluated technically, environmentally, and economically, four configurations of swine waste treatment systems focused on the promotion of decarbonization and circularity of the swine chain. For this, a reference plant, based on a compact treatment process named SISTRATES® (Portuguese acronym for swine effluent treatment system) was adopted to serve as a model for comparison and validation. The results showed the importance of prioritization of the energy recuperation routes through anaerobic digestion, providing increased economic benefits and minimizing environmental damage. Thus, the SISTRATES® configuration was the one that presented the best designs in a circular context, maximizing the recovery of energy and nutrients, along with the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, ensuring the sustainability of the pig production chain.

Enhancement of biogas production from individually or co-digested green algae Cheatomorpha linum using ultrasound and ozonation treated biochar.This paper proposes the use of modified biochar, derived from Sawdust (SD) biomass using sonication (SSDB) and Ozonation (OSDB) processes, as an additive for biogas production from green algae Cheatomorpha linum (C. linum) either individually or co-digested with natural diet for rotifer culture (S. parkel). Brunauer-Emmett-Teller (BET), Fourier-Transform Infrared (FTIR), thermal-gravimetric (TGA), and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analyses were used to characterize the generated biochar. Ultrasound (US) specific energy, dose, intensity and dissolved ozone (O) concentration were also calculated. FTIR analyses proved the capability of US and ozonation treatment of biochar to enhance the biogas production process. The kinetic model proposed fits successfully with the data of the experimental work and the modified Gompertz models that had the maximum R value of 0.993 for 150 mg/L of OSDB. The results of this work confirmed the significant impact of US and ozonation processes on the use of biochar as an additive in biogas production. The highest biogas outputs 1059 mL/g VS and 1054 mL/g VS) were achieved when 50 mg of SSDB and 150 mg of OSDB were added to C. linum co-digested with S. parkle.

Enhanced methane production from anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge by combining ultrasound with potassium permanganate pretreatment.The influence of ultrasound (US) and potassium permanganate (KMnO) co-pretreatment on anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge (WAS) was investigated in this survey. Results showed that KMnO (0.3 g/g TSS) cooperated with US (1 W/mL, 15 min) pretreatment significantly increased the cumulative methane yield to 174.44 ± 3.65 mL/g VS compared to the control group (108.72 ± 2.56 mL/g VS), solo US (125.39 ± 2.56 mL/g VS), and solo KMnO pretreatment group (160.83 ± 1.61 mL/g VS). Mechanistic investigation revealed that US combined with KMnO pretreatment effectively disrupted the structure of extracellular polymeric substances and cell walls by generating reactive radicals, accelerating the release of organics and hydrolytic enzymes as well as improving the biodegradability of soluble organics. Modeling analysis illustrated that the biochemical methane potential and hydrolysis rate of WAS were enhanced under US + KMnO pretreatment. Microbial community distribution indicated that the co-pretreatment of US and KMnO elevated the total relative abundance of functional microorganisms associated with anaerobic digestion (22.01 %) compared to the control (10.69 %), US alone (12.24 %) and KMnO alone (16.20 %).

The synergistic effect of chemical oxidation and microbial activity on improving volatile fatty acids (VFAs) production during the animal wastewater anaerobic digestion process treated with persulfate/biochar.Improving volatile fatty acid (VFA) production, rather than producing methane from the anaerobic digestion (AD) of waste, has become a new strategy of resource utilization. In regard to animal wastewater, the effectiveness of persulfate/biochar (potassium peroxodisulfate, PDS/BC) on the hydrolysis and acidogenesis stages and the reaction mechanisms are still unclear. In this study, the AD process on cow wastewater was controlled at the hydrolysis and acidification stages by setting the hydraulic retention time (HRT) at 25 days. The results showed that the contents of total solids (TS) and volatile solids (VS) were further reduced by PDS/BC treatment with 0.15 gPDS/gTS of PDS added. The VFAs production increased by 12.4 % from day 0 to 25 compared to the blank set. Based on our molecular analysis, the rate of increase for the dissolved organic matter with low molecular weight (0-10 kDa) was 699.5 mg/(L·d) in the first 10 days. The change rate increased nearly 2.1 times, leading to higher VFAs yield. Moreover, the activities of fermentative bacteria were enhanced and Anaerocella was determined to be the specific and critical genus. However, excessive PDS (0.3 gPDS/gTS) prolonged the acidification period and caused the inactivation of fermentative bacteria. Structural equation modeling demonstrated that PDS can directly affect VFAs yield and also had an indirect effect by influencing the decomposition of particulate matter and microbial activities. Therefore, the enhancement of VFAs production using the PDS/BC method could be due to synergistic chemical and microbial effects. Findings from this study can provide a practical strategy to enhance the VFAs production of AD technology for livestock wastewater and help reveal the reaction mechanism of PDS/BC treatment.

Hydrothermal and thermal-alkali pretreatments of wheat straw: Co-digestion, substrate solubilization, biogas yield and kinetic study.Agro-waste having lignocellulosic biomass is considered most effective (heating value 16 MJ/kg) for energy production through anaerobic digestion (AD). However, recalcitrant lignocellulosic fraction in agro-waste obstructs its biotransformation and is a rate-limiting step of the process. This study investigated the effects of hydrothermal and thermal-alkaline pretreatment on anaerobic co-digestion of wheat straw (WS). The hydrothermal pretreatment of WS revealed that 60 min was the best pretreatment time to achieve the highest substrate solubilization. It was employed for thermal-alkali pretreatment at variable temperatures and NaOH doses. Thermal-alkali pretreatment at 125°C-7% NaOH shows the highest (34%) biogas yield of 662 mL/gVS, followed by 646 mL/gVS biogas yield at 150°C-1% NaOH assay (31% higher) over control. Although the 125°C-7% NaOH assay achieved the highest biogas yield, the 150°C-1% NaOH assay was found more feasible considering the cost of a 6% higher chemical used in the earlier assay. The thermal-alkali pretreatment was observed to reduce the formation of recalcitrant compounds (HMF, Furfural) and increase the buffering capacity of the slurry over hydrothermal pretreatment. Principal component analysis (PCA) of the various pretreatment and AD operational parameters was carried out to study their in-depth correlation. Moreover, a kinetic study of the experimental data was performed to observe the biodegradation trend and compare it with the Modified Gompertz (MG) and First Order (FO) models.

High concentration of nitrogen recovery from anaerobic digested slurry (ADS) using biochars: adsorption and improvement.Biochar produced from biomass has been increasingly used as an environmentally friendly and low-cost adsorbent. This study systemically evaluated the effects of raw materials including corn straw (CS), cattle manure (CM), and cherry woods (CW) as well as pyrolysis temperature (400, 500, and 600 °C) on the physicochemical properties, such as morphological structure, element content, and surface functionality of biochars. The batch experiments of NH-N adsorption using anaerobic digested slurry (ADS) confirmed that CM600 (biochar derived from CM at 600 °C) had the highest adsorption capacity of 18.16 mg·g. The effects of coexisting ions in ADS, biochar dosage, adsorption time and initial concentration on NH-N adsorption from ADS by the biochars were evaluated. The results of the batch equilibrium and kinetics experiments showed that Langmuir isotherm model and pseudo-second-order kinetic model well described NH-N adsorption by the biochars, indicating that physical and chemical adsorption occurred simultaneously. Furthermore, compared to the biochar-modified method, the raw material-modified biochar (CM600-modified biochar) showed excellent adsorption capacity with a maximum of 69.82 mg·g (284% increase) for the high NH-N concentration (4,000 mg·L) from ADS. Therefore, it was concluded that high-concentration nitrogen recovery from ADS using modified biochar was an effective method.

Freezing method assists calcium hypochlorite for synergistically promoting methane production from sludge anaerobic digestion.Anaerobic digestion is widely considered to be a promising technology for waste activated sludge (WAS) treatment, by which sludge stabilization and resource recovery are simultaneously achieved. The poor reaction efficiency however hinders the large-scale applications of WAS anaerobic digestion technology. This study reported an efficient sludge pretreatment method by combining freezing with calcium hypochlorite (Ca(ClO)) for enhancing the anaerobic digestion efficiency. Experimental data showed that the optimal combination was freezing at -20 °C coupled with 0.075 g/g VSS (volatile suspended solids) Ca(ClO), by which the maximum biomethane production of 274.4 ± 8.2 mL/g VSS was realized, 1.62 times higher than that of the control. Model-based analysis demonstrated that higher potential and rate for methane production were attained by the combined pretreatment. Mechanism analysis revealed that the extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) and microbial cells were both effectively destructed when treated by combined freezing and Ca(ClO), and more dissolved organics were generated in consequence. Microbial analysis demonstrated that the co-treated reactor enriched more functional microbes (such as Methanosaeta, Methanosarcina and Candidatus_Methanofastidiosum) responsible for biomethane generation than that of the control. Furthermore, the number of fecal coliform was largely reduced in co-treated reactor. As the correlation between sludge anaerobic digestion performance and numerous pretreatment parameters was systematically revealed, this study can provide important references for engineers when applying the combined freezing and Ca(ClO) technology in practical engineering.

Turning an invasive alien species into a valuable biomass: Anaerobic digestion of Rugulopteryx okamurae after thermal and new developed low-cost mechanical pretreatments.The invasive alien seaweed Rugulopteryx okamurae (R.o.) has spread quickly through the Mediterranean Sea causing an unprecedented ecological impact. A solution integrated into a circular economy model is needed in order to curb the negative effects of its presence. Anaerobic digestion (AD) is proposed as a feasible process able to transform biomass into renewable energy. Nevertheless, in order to improve the methane yield and surpass the drawbacks associated with AD processes, this research proposes a thermal pretreatment and a new developed method where the macroalgae is mechanically pretreated with zeolite. Chemical and microstructure characterization of the algal biomass after pretreatments involved scanning electron microscopy (SEM), X-ray powder diffraction (XRD) and Fourier-transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR). The highest methane yields of 240 (28) and 250 (20) NL kg VS were obtained with the new mechanical pretreatment and the thermal pretreatment at 120 °C for 45 min without zeolite, achieving a 35 % improvement against the non-pretreated algae. A direct relationship between the crystallinity index of the samples and methane production was observed. The experimental data of methane production versus time were found to be in accordance with both first-order kinetic and Transference Function mathematical models.

Inflammation-associated nitrate facilitates ectopic colonization of oral bacterium Veillonella parvula in the intestine.Colonization of the intestine by oral microbes has been linked to multiple diseases such as inflammatory bowel disease and colon cancer, yet mechanisms allowing expansion in this niche remain largely unknown. Veillonella parvula, an asaccharolytic, anaerobic, oral microbe that derives energy from organic acids, increases in abundance in the intestine of patients with inflammatory bowel disease. Here we show that nitrate, a signature metabolite of inflammation, allows V. parvula to transition from fermentation to anaerobic respiration. Nitrate respiration, through the narGHJI operon, boosted Veillonella growth on organic acids and also modulated its metabolic repertoire, allowing it to use amino acids and peptides as carbon sources. This metabolic shift was accompanied by changes in carbon metabolism and ATP production pathways. Nitrate respiration was fundamental for ectopic colonization in a mouse model of colitis, because a V. parvula narG deletion mutant colonized significantly less than a wild-type strain during inflammation. These results suggest that V. parvula harness conditions present during inflammation to colonize in the intestine.

Evaluation of methane generation rate and energy recovery potential of municipal solid waste using anaerobic digestion and landfilling: A case study of Dhanbad, India.In this study, two most common biological waste to energy conversion techniques have been analysed and compared on the basis of methane generation and energy recovery potential. The biogas generation potential has been estimated using anaerobic co-digestion experiment. The main substrate used for this study was food waste, while cow dung and anaerobic digester sludge were used as co-digestion substrates. Food waste was used because of its maximum composition (36% of total wastes) in the study area (Dhanbad city, India) with high biogas generation potential. Cow dung acted as a natural buffer, while anaerobic digester sludge was a source of active inoculum. Based on the maximum biogas yield of 402 mL g VS and annual food waste generation rate in the study area, the energy recovery potential using anaerobic digestion was estimated to be 6.59 × 10 kWh year. Presently, the wastes in the mixed form are being dumped on a large abandoned land with an approximate area of 93 ha in the outskirts of Dhanbad city in an uncontrolled manner. The annual landfill gas generation from the existing landfill has been estimated using Landfill Gas Emissions Model (LandGEM) based on the waste characteristics, anticipated landfill life and other region-specific parameters of the present study area. The maximum electrical energy recovery potential of 44.62 × 10 kWh from landfill gas has been estimated for the year 2041. Although, the results are based on the waste generation and characteristics of Dhanbad city, the comparison methodology can be applied to other cities.

Anaerobic swine digestate valorization via energy-efficient electrodialysis for nutrient recovery and water reclamation.The development of cost-effective and energy-efficient technologies to recover nutrients from digestate is important. Anaerobic digestate can be concentrated into bio-nutrient products through an electrodialysis (ED) process in an energy-efficient manner. Despite recent advances, the operation modes of ED for nutrient recovery from swine digestate are yet to be systematically evaluated from the perspective of energy-water efficiencies, and the determination of optimal operations in ED units is still ambiguous. In this study, two different operating modes of electrodialysis, i.e., constant voltage and constant current, are designed to evaluate the energy efficiency and effectiveness of nutrient recovery from anaerobic swine digestate. The ion removal ratio and current efficiency of the different modes and their associated electromigration performance (e.g., rate constants) are evaluated. The results indicate that the maximum removal efficiency (in terms of electrical conductivity) is 92.8% at a cell voltage of 2.4 V/cell using the constant voltage operation. The current efficiencies of NH (43‒65%) are higher than that of other ions, such as K (12‒19%), Cl (4‒7%), and PO (0.1‒1.5%). For nitrogen recovery, the required energy consumption was about 0.24‒15.2 kWh/kg-N (0.86‒54.7 kJ/g-N), corresponding to a removal ratio of ammonium from 70.8% to 99.1%. Based on the experimental data, the optimal operating conditions are identified using response surface models by considering process energy consumption and productivity to deliver energy-efficient nutrient separation. One candidate of the ideal conditions to achieve the total ion removal of ∼93% should be operated at a constant cell voltage of 1.15 V, corresponding to a productivity of 5.24 gal/hr/m at an energy consumption of 0.44 kWh/m. Last, a conceptual design of cascading separation processes is proposed for digestate valorization as biofertilizers, nutrients, organic acids, and reclaimed water. A preliminary benefit-cost evaluation is then performed to evaluate the engineering and economic performance of the developed process for nutrient recovery from swine digestate. This article provides insight into practical large-scale applications of digestate valorization through energy-efficient separation, thereby realizing a circular economy system and a decarbonizing supply chain of bio-nutrients.

Distinguishing responses of acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogens to ammonia stress in mesophilic mixed cultures.A shift from the acetoclastic to the hydrogenotrophic pathway in methanogenesis under ammonia inhibition is a common observation in anaerobic digestion. However, there are still considerable knowledge gaps concerning the differential ammonia tolerance of acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogens (AMs and HMs), their responses to different ammonia species (NH, NH), and their recoverability after ammonia inhibition. With the successful enrichment of mesophilic AMs and HMs cultures, this study aimed at addressing the above knowledge gaps through batch inhibition/recovery tests and kinetic modeling under varying total ammonia (TAN, 0.2-10 g N/L) and pH (7.0-8.5) conditions. The results showed that the tolerance level of HMs to free ammonia (FAN, IC=1345 mg N/L) and NH (IC=6050 mg N/L) was nearly 11 times and 3 times those of AMs (NH, IC=123 mg N/L; NH, IC=2133 mg N/L), respectively. Consistent with general belief, the AMs were more impacted by FAN. However, the HMs were more adversely affected by NH when the pH was ≤8.0. A low TAN (1.0-4.0 g N/L) could cause irreversible inhibition of the AMs due to significant cell death, whereas the activity of HMs could be fully or even over recovered from severe ammonia stress (FAN≤ 0.9 g N/L or TAN≤10 g N/L; pH ≤8.0). The different tolerance responses of AMs and HMs might be associated with the cell morphology, multiple energy-converting systems, and Gibbs free energy from substrate-level phosphorylation.

Urine pretreatment significantly promotes methane production in anaerobic waste activated sludge digestion.Methane production of waste activated sludge (WAS) in anaerobic digestion is hindered due to the rate-limited hydrolysis process and the low methane potential of WAS. Pretreatment of WAS is a common and appealing strategy to improve methane production in anaerobic digestion. In this study, we proposed to use urine, an easily obtained human waste with high ammonium concentration and pH, as a novel pretreatment strategy for anaerobic WAS digestion. Urine pretreatment at levels of 5-30 % (V/V) could substantially enhance methane production by 5-35 % in biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests, with the highest methane production of 179.6 ± 3.3 mL/g volatile solids (VS) achieved under the highest level of urine (i.e. 30 % urine addition). Based on the model analysis, the biochemical methane potential (B) and hydrolysis rate of WAS (k) rose from 131.9 mL/g VS and 0.19 d in the control without pretreatment to 136.3-178.2 mL/g VS and 0.22-0.30 d, respectively, after the urine pretreatment (5-30 % addition). Urine pretreatment with 5-30 % addition also improved the degradation extent (Y) of WAS by 3-35 %. The promising results indicate that urine pretreatment in anaerobic digestion is a promising technology to improve the efficiency of anaerobic digestion with environmental and economic benefits.

Exploration of deep learning models for real-time monitoring of state and performance of anaerobic digestion with online sensors.The immediate response to the state disturbances of anaerobic digestion is essential to prevent anaerobic digestion failure. However, frequent monitoring of the state and performance of anaerobic digestion is challenging. Thus, deep learning models were investigated to predict the state and performance variables from online sensor data. The online sensor data, including pH, electric conductivity, and oxidation-reduction potential, were used as the input features to build deep learning models. The state and performance data measured offline were used as the labels. The model performance was compared for several deep learning models of convolutional neural network (CNN), long short-term memory (LSTM), dense layer, and their combinations. The combined model of CNN and bidirectional LSTM was robust and well-generalized in predicting the state and performance variables (R = 0.978, root mean square error = 0.031). The combined model is an excellent soft sensor for monitoring the state and performance of anaerobic digestion from electrochemical sensors.

The Impact of Preservation Techniques on Methane-Arrested Anaerobic Digestion of Nutrient-Rich Feedstocks.The carboxylate platform is a promising biomass-to-energy pathway that uses methane-arrested anaerobic digestion (MAAD) to convert biomass to carboxylic acids, which can be chemically converted to industrial chemicals and liquid fuels. Lignocellulose is an energy-rich carbon source, but lacks nutrients necessary for microbial growth. Chicken manure (rural waste) and sewage sludge (urban waste) are rich in nitrogen and useful macronutrients; therefore, co-digesting these wastes with lignocellulose improves MAAD performance. However, waste nutrients must be digested immediately, or preserved. This study investigated the effects of various preservation techniques - frozen (fresh), air-dried, and baked - on chicken manure and sewage sludge. Batch experiments were performed with office paper (carbon source) and chicken manure or sewage sludge (nutrient source) with different methods of preservation. Fresh substrates produced higher acid yields and biomass conversion (the amount of biomass consumed during digestion) than dried substrates. Baked chicken manure showed reduced conversion and total acid production, which suggests that oven-drying reduces digestibility. From the batch data, the Continuum Particle Distribution Model (CPDM) predicted results of a four-stage countercurrent digestion. The data are displayed on maps showing the impact of liquid residence time (LRT) and volatile solids loading rate (VSLR) on conversion and product concentration. Co-digesting office paper and wet chicken manure at a non-acid volatile solid (NAVS) concentration of 300 g/L, the model predicted a high total acid concentration of 52.8 g/L and conversion of 0.89 g NAVS/NAVS at a volatile solid loading rate of 4 g/(L·day) and liquid retention time of 35 days.

Enhancing two-phase anaerobic digestion of mixture of primary and secondary sludge by adding granular activated carbon (GAC): Evaluating acidogenic and methanogenic efficiency.Although the granular activated carbon (GAC) has been proved to enhance conventional single-phase anaerobic digestion (AD), how it impacts on acidogenic and methanogenic fermentation is still unknown. In this study, GAC was introduced to elevate the efficiency of two-phase AD, with mixture of primary and secondary sludge as substrate. Five dosages: 0, 0.1, 0.3, 0.5 and 0.7 g GAC/g TSS (Total Suspended Solids) were investigated to determine influences of GAC. The variations of biogas (hydrogen and methane), volatile fatty acids (VFAs), organics degradation and transformation in extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) and dissolved organic matters (DOM) were analyzed. Modified Gompertz model and first-order reaction equation was applied to analyze the kinetics of biogas yield and VFAs utilization, respectively. Sludge reduction, electrical conductance and pH were also quantified to evaluate the system performance. The results showed that GAC could improve two-phase AD performance by enhancing methane production and organics conversion.

Enhanced sewage sludge treatment via parallel anaerobic digestion at the upper mesophilic level.Sewage mixed sludge (MS) digestion performance was ameliorated implementing the parallel digestion model for primary sludge (PS) and secondary sludge (SS) (waste activated sludge) as domestic sewage sludge fractions rich in oil and grease content at the upper mesophilic level (40 °C). Optimization of the organic loading rate (OLR) was conducted in parallel semi-continuous bench-scale digesters for PS, SS and MS. Comparatively evaluated performance and biosolid quality parameters were methane production rates, volatile solid (VS) reduction, oil and grease and nutrient content, dewaterability and electrical conductivity (EC). OLR optimization indicated different retention time needs for PS and SS stabilization and enabled 18% and 93% higher VS loading and reduction, respectively, compared to MS digestion. Inhibitory effect followed an ascending pattern as a result of OLR increase in each digestion line acting on the hydrolysis of proteinaceous matter and acetogenesis rather than methanogenesis. A high number of long chain fatty acids was detected in the raw sludges. The enhancing effect of the upper mesophilic temperature was significant in SS digestion with increased biodegradability, oil and grease removal and microbial growth compared to digestion at 35 °C. The parallel digestion system and upper mesophilic temperature proved a useful tool to enhance VS loading and reduction without worsening the stabilized biosolids' dewaterability as a feasible model in the existing and prospective municipal wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs). The weakness of the MS digestion was diagnosed as the lower synthesis degree of biomass induced by the dilution of the substrate in PS by SS mixing which weakened the microbial tolerance to high OLR and inhibition. The output indicated the potential of parallel AD, importance of the optimization for OLR and temperature to advance the performance and flexibility of the sludge line practice in municipal WWTPs.

Response of mixed community anammox biomass against sulfide, nitrite and recalcitrant carbon in terms of inhibition coefficients and functional gene expressions.Anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) has evolved as a carbon and energy-efficient nitrogen management bioprocess. However, factors such as inhibitory chemicals still challenge the easy operation of this powerful bioprocess. This research systematically evaluated the inhibition kinetics of sulfide, nitrite, and recalcitrant carbon under a genomic framework. The inhibition at the substrate and genetic levels of sulfide, nitrite and recalcitrant carbon on anammox activity was studied using batch tests. Nitrite inhibition of anammox followed substrate inhibition and was best described by the Aiba model with an inhibition coefficient [Formula: see text] of 324.04 mg N/L. Hydrazine synthase (hzsB) gene (anammox biomarker) expression was increased over time when incubated with nitrite up to 400 mg N/L. However, despite having the highest specific nitrite removal (SNR), the expression of hzsB at 100 and 200 mg N/L of nitrite was more muted than in most other samples with lower SNRs. Sulfide severely inhibited anammox activities. The inhibition was fitted with a Monod-based model with a [Formula: see text] of 4.39 mg S/L. At a sulfide concentration of 5 mg/L, the hzsB expression decreased throughout the experiment from its original value at he beginning. Recalcitrant carbon of filtrate from thermal hydrolysis process pretreated anaerobic digester had a minimal effect on maximum specific anammox activity (MSAA), and thus the value of the inhibition coefficient could not be calculated. At the same time, its hzsB expression profile was similar to that in the control. Resiliency and recovery tests indicated that the inhibition of nitrite (up to 400 mg N/L) and recalcitrant carbon (in 100% filtrate) were reversible. About 32% of MSAA was recovered after repeated exposures to sulfide at 2.5 mg/L, while at 5 mg/L, the inhibition was irreversible. Findings from this study will be helpful for the successful design and implementation of anammox in full-scale applications.

Assessment of Magnetic Nanomaterials for Municipality Wastewater Treatment Using Biochemical Methane Potential (BMP) Tests.Wastewater as a substrate potential for producing renewable energy in the form of biogas is gaining global attention. Herein, nanomaterials can be utilised as a nutrient source for microorganisms for anaerobic digestion activity. Therefore, this study explored the impact of seven different magnetic nanomaterials (MNMs) on the anaerobic digestion of wastewater via biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests for biogas production. The BMP assay was carried out with eight bioreactors, where each was charged with 50% wastewater and 30% activated sludge, leaving a headspace of 20%. Aside the control bioreactor, the other seven (7) bioreactors were dosed with 1.5 g of MNMs. This was operated under anaerobic conditions at a mesophilic temperature of 35 °C for 31 days. At the degree of 80% degradation of contaminants, the results that showed bioreactors charged with 1.5 g MNMs of TiO photocatalyst composites were more effective than those constituting metallic composites, whereas the control achieved 65% degradation. Additionally, the bioreactor with magnetite (FeO) produced the highest cumulative biogas of 1172 mL/day. Kinetically, the modified Gompertz model favoured the cumulative biogas data obtained with a significant regression coefficient (R) close to one.

In-situ sulphide control in the anaerobic co-digestion of residual biomass from the production of penicillin and cystine.This study was focused on the anaerobic digestion of residual biomass from the production of penicillin and l-cystine. The biogas potential tests of individual substrates and their mixture showed good anaerobic biodegradability. The highest measured specific biogas production was 712 l/kg volatile solids (VS) for penicillin biomass and 676 l/ kg VS for cystine biomass. The biogas potential tests were performed at different inoculum-to-substrate ratios (ISR) and showed that high concentrations of nitrogen and sulphur present in residual biomass have a major impact on the anaerobic processes. The long-term operation of the laboratory anaerobic reactor showed that the mono-digestion of the penicillin biomass was stable at an OLR of 1 kg/(m.d). When co-digestion of penicillin and cystine biomass at a ratio of 0.9:0.1 (on a VS basis) and at the same OLR was enhanced, the operation of the laboratory model turned unstable. During this phase of the operation, the course of anaerobic processes was affected by ammonia and especially sulphide inhibition. Sulphide inhibition was effectively reduced by direct dosing of FeCl (in-situ sulphide control), at a molar iron-to-sulphur ratio of β = 1 (mol Fe/mol S). When suppressing sulphide inhibition, the operation of the laboratory model became stable even at a co-digestion ratio of 0.5:0.5 (VS basis). The results of this work open a new scope for future applications in the anaerobic digestion of waste biomass with high sulfur content, coming from industrial fermentation processes.

Nitrogen dynamics and carbon sequestration in soil following application of digestates from one- and two-step anaerobic digestion.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is an important tool for reducing greenhouse gas emissions from agricultural production. A prolonged retention time by adding an extra anaerobic digestion step can be utilized to further degrade the digestates, contributing to increased nitrogen mineralisation and reducing decomposable organic matter. These modifications could influence the potential N fertiliser value of the digestate and soil carbon sequestration after field application. This study investigated the effects of prolonging retention time by implementing an additional anaerobic digestion step on carbon and nitrogen dynamics in the soil and soil carbon sequestration. Two digestates obtained from two biogas plants operating at contrasting hydraulic retention times, with and without an additional digestion step, were applied to a loamy sand soil. N mineralisation dynamics were measured during 80 days and C mineralisation during 212 days. After 80 days of incubation, the net inorganic N release from digestates obtained from a secondary AD step increased by 9-17 % (% of the N input) compared to corresponding digestates obtained from a primary AD step. A kinetic four-pool carbon model was used to fit C mineralisation data to estimate carbon sequestration in the soil. After 212 days of incubation, the net C mineralisation was highest in undigested solid biomass (68 %) and digestates obtained from the primary AD step (59-65 %). The model predicted that 26-54 % of C applied is sequestered in the soil in the long-term. The long-term soil C retention related to the C present before digestion was similar for one- and two-step AD at 12-16 %. We conclude that optimizing the anaerobic digestion configurations by including a secondary AD step could potentially replace more mineral N fertiliser due to an improved N fertiliser value of the resultant digestate without affecting carbon sequestration negatively.

Automated machine learning-based prediction of microplastics induced impacts on methane production in anaerobic digestion.Microplastics as emerging pollutants have been heavily accumulated in the waste activated sludge (WAS) during biological wastewater treatment, which showed significantly diverse impacts on the subsequent anaerobic sludge digestion for methane production. However, a robust modeling approach for predicting and unveiling the complex effects of accumulated microplastics within WAS on methane production is still missing. In this study, four automated machine learning (AutoML) approach was applied to model the effects of microplastics on anaerobic digestion processes, and integrated explainable analysis was explored to reveal the relationships between key variables (e.g., concentration, type, and size of microplastics) and methane production. The results showed that the gradient boosting machine had better prediction performance (mean squared error (MSE) = 17.0) than common neural networks models (MSE = 58.0), demonstrating that the AutoML algorithms succeeded in predicting the methane production and could select the best machine learning model without human intervention. Explainable analysis results indicated that the variable of microplastic types was more important than the variable of microplastic diameter and concentration. The existence of polystyrene was associated with higher methane production, whereas increasing microplastic diameter and concentration both inhibited methane production. This work also provided a novel modeling approach for comprehensively understanding the complex effects of microplastics on methane production, which revealed the dependence relationships between methane production and key variables and may be served as a reference for optimizing operational adjustments in anaerobic digestion processes.

Hydrochar prepared from digestate improves anaerobic co-digestion of food waste and sewage sludge: Performance, mechanisms, and implication.This work reported a new waste functionalization and utilization method, which use digestate to prepare hydrochar to improve methane production from food waste (FW) and sewage sludge (SS). Experimental results presented that 10 g/L hydrochar obtained the cumulative methane production of 133.11 ± 1.18 mL/g volatile solids added, 26.99 % higher than that without hydrochar addition. By monitoring the conversion of model metabolic intermediates, 10 g/L hydrochar was determined to favor hydrolysis, acidogenesis and methonogenesis bio-processes involved in methane production, thus improving the degradation of solubilized organics and consumption of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) during the co-digestion. Microbial investigation revealed that 10 g/L hydrochar enriched the microbes relevant to methane production (e.g., Methanosaeta and Syntrophomonas), but reduced the abundances of hydrolysis- and acidogenesis-related microbes (e.g., Acinetobacter). This hydrochar-based preparation and utilization strategy might offer a novel paradigm for waste-control-waste, bringing economic and environmental benefits.

Kinetic evaluation of sonicated food waste in continuously stirred tank reactor.This work aimed to evaluate the process performance and stability of the anaerobic digestion of sonicated food waste (SFW) by determining the kinetic parameters using Monod, Contois, Modified Stover-Kincannon, and Grau second-order multicomponent substrate removal kinetic models. The anaerobic digestion was conducted on the sonicated food waste (SFW) in a 13 L continuously stirred tank reactor (CSTR) with a stepwise organic loading rate (OLR) ranging from 1.5 to 3.5 gCOD/L.day. The experimental works were carried out in two stages (start-up then followed by semi-continuous). The ultrasonic pretreatment was performed by sonicating the food waste slurry for 10 minutes at a 20 kHz frequency and specific energy input of 25,997 kJ/kg TS. The process performance, as well as acceptable stability in the SFW digester, provided satisfactory predictions with Monod, Modified Stover-Kincannon, Grau second-order multicomponent substrate removal, and Contois kinetic models. A significant relationship was seen between the predicted and experimental data with correlation coefficients (R) ranging from 0.893 to 0.996. In this study, the Monod model with R = 0.996 indicates the most suitable model for understanding the kinetic parameters of the anaerobic system in the CSTR which digests the sonicated food waste (SFW) slurry.

Shear and solid-liquid separation behaviour of anaerobic digested sludge across a broad range of solids concentrations.Due to the non-homogeneous and multiphase nature of anaerobic lagoon constituents, CFD modelling for process optimisation requires continuous functions for shear and solid-liquid separation properties across a large range of solids concentrations. Unfortunately, measurement of existing material properties of anaerobic sludges is limited to only shear or solid-liquid separation, or to a limited solids concentration. In this work, the shear properties of an anaerobic sludge were measured from 0.4 to 12.5 vol%, which corresponds to the solids concentrations seen in lagoons. The sludge showed Newtonian behaviour at 0.4 vol% and Herschel-Bulkley yield stress fluid behaviour for higher concentrations ranging from 0.5 to 12 vol%. We compared multiple approaches to determine relationships between the model fitting parameters of consistency, k, flow index, n, and shear yield stress, τ with solids volume fraction ϕ.The solid-liquid separation properties were measured from sedimentation and filtration experiments to obtain compressibility and permeability properties across all the above-mentioned concentrations, enabling development of hindered velocity sedimentation curves. Comparison to full-scale anaerobic digestate identified that the pilot lagoon sludge had faster sedimentation at a given solids concentration in comparison to the digestate. This is the first study on simultaneous rheological characterisation and solid-liquid separation behaviour of an anaerobic sludge across a wide range of concentrations, thus enabling CFD modelling of the hydrodynamics and performance of anaerobic lagoons.

Novel Long-Chain Fatty Acid (LCFA)-Degrading Bacteria and Pathways in Anaerobic Digestion Promoted by Hydrochar as Revealed by Genome-Centric Metatranscriptomics Analysis.A large amount of long-chain fatty acids (LCFA) are generated after lipids hydrolysis in anaerobic digestion (AD), and LCFA are difficult to be biodegraded. This study showed that hydrochar (HC), which was produced during the hydrothermal liquefaction of organic wastes, significantly increased the methane production rate (by 56.9%) of oleate, a typical refractory model LCFA. Genomic-centric metatranscriptomics analysis revealed that three novel microbes (Bin138  sp., Bin35  sp., and Bin54  sp.) that were capable of degrading LCFA were enriched by HC, which played an important role in the degradation of oleate. LCFA was degraded to acetate through the well-known LCFA β-oxidation pathway and the combined β-oxidation and butyrate oxidation pathway. In addition, it was found that HC promoted the direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) between  sp. and Bin54  sp. The enriched new types of LCFA-degrading bacteria and the promotion of DIET contributed to the improved methane production rate of oleate by HC.  Long-chain fatty acids (LCFA) are difficult to be degraded in anaerobic digestion (AD), and the known LCFA degrading bacteria are only limited to the families  and . Here, we found that hydrochar effectively promoted AD of LCFA, and the new LCFA-degrading bacteria and a new metabolic pathway were also revealed based on genomic-centric metatranscriptomic analysis. This study provided a new method for enhancing the AD of organic wastes with high content of LCFA and increased the understanding of the microbes and their metabolic pathways involved in AD of LCFA.

Microbial mechanisms of refractory organics degradation in old landfill leachate by a combined process of UASB-A/O-USSB.A combined process of anaerobic digestion (UASB), shortcut nitrification-denitrification (A/O), and semi-anoxic co-metabolism (operated by an up-flow semi-anoxic sludge bed; USSB) was constructed for the treatment of old landfill leachate (>10 years). The performance and mechanism of refractory organics degradation by the combined process (UASB-A/O-USSB) were investigated. The results showed that the semi-anoxic co-metabolism contributes 57 % of the totally degraded refractory organics. Specific microorganisms and their corresponding metabolic functions drive the degradation of refractory organics in each unit of the UASB-A/O-USSB process. In detail, organics with simple molecular structures were preferentially degraded by anaerobic digestion and shortcut denitrification, whereas those with complex structures were subsequently degraded in the oxic tanks and USSB reactor by shortcut nitrification and semi-anoxic co-metabolism. The structural equation model showed that the combined process of shortcut nitrification and semi-anoxic co-metabolism had a better effect on the degradation of recalcitrant organics than the single process. These findings provide information on how refractory organics are metabolically degraded in a combined process.

3 4
Insight into enhanced acetic acid production from food waste in anaerobic hydrolysis/acidification with FeO supplementation.FeO supplementation has been reported as a high-efficient approach to enhance biogas production in anaerobic digestion (AD). Volatile fatty acids (VFAs), especially acetic acid (HAc), are considered as important products in acidification process of AD. However, the possible mechanisms involved in promotion effect of FeO on HAc production in hydrolysis and acidification processes of AD have not been comprehensively studied. This study first investigated the promotion effect of FeO on hydrolysis, acidogenesis and acetogenesis stages of AD and proposed the underlying mechanisms, using food waste (FW) as the feedstock, which is considered as the most suitable substrate for VFAs production. Results indicated that the HAc production (77.38 g-C/kg-VS) was enhanced by 79 % in AD of FW with addition of 10 g/L FeO. The duration to reach the maximum HAc production was also shortened from 14 days to 10 days. The AD tests using model substrates revealed that FeO enhanced hydrolysis, acidogenesis, and degradation of propionic acid, thus resulting in enhanced HAc production. The enhanced activities of hydrolytic and acid-forming enzymes, and electron transport system (ETS) with FeO addition further demonstrated its function as an electron acceptor to stimulate electron transfer and accelerate microbial metabolisms in AD, which contributed to the enhanced HAc production from FW.

Demand-oriented biogas production to cover residual load of an electricity self-sufficient community using a simple kinetic model.Flexible biogas production can enable demand-oriented energy supply without the need for expensive gas storage expansions, but poses challenges to the stability of the anaerobic digestion (AD) process. In this work, biogas production of laboratory-scale AD of maize silage and sugar beets was optimized to cover the residual load of an electricity self-sufficient community using a simple process model based on first-order kinetics. Experiments show a good agreement between biogas demand, predicted, and measured biogas production. By optimizing biogas conversion schedules based on the measured gas production, a gas storage capacity of 7-8 h was identified for maximum flexibility, which corresponds to typical gas storage sizes at industrial biogas plants in Germany. Various stability indicators were continuously monitored and proved resilient process conditions. These results demonstrate that demand-oriented biogas production using model predictive control is a promising approach to enable existing biogas plants to provide balancing energy.

Oxygen-dependent regulation of permeability in low resistance intestinal epithelial cells infected with Giardia lamblia.Intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) reside in a highly anaerobic environment that is subject to daily fluctuations in partial oxygen pressure (pO), depending on intestinal tissue perfusion. This condition, known as physiological hypoxia, has a major impact on the maintenance of gut homeostasis, such as effects on the integrity and function of the intestinal epithelial barrier. Giardia lamblia is a microaerophilic protozoan parasite that infects and colonizes the small intestine of its host, causing watery diarrhea. The disease, known as giardiasis, is associated with enhanced intestinal permeability and disruption or reorganization of tight junction (TJ) proteins between IECs. Given the central role of oxygen in gut homeostasis, in this study, we aimed to evaluate whether pO affects intestinal permeability (flux of ions and macromolecules) and TJ protein expression in human IECs during G. lamblia infection. Using human cell lines HuTu-80 and Caco-2 as models of "loose" (low resistance) and "tight" (high resistance) intestines, respectively, we elucidated that low pO drives intestinal barrier dysfunction in IECs infected with trophozoites through dephosphorylation of protein kinase C (PKC α/β II). Additionally, we demonstrated that IECs infected with trophozoites in the presence of a pharmacological PKC activator (phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate) partially restored the barrier function, which was correlated with increased protein expression levels of zonula occludens (ZO)-2 and occludin. Collectively, these results support the emerging theory that molecular oxygen impacts gut homeostasis during Giardia infection via direct host signaling pathways. These findings further our knowledge regarding Giardia-host interactions and the pathophysiological mechanisms of human giardiasis.

Post-hydrolysis ammonia stripping as a new approach to enhance the two-stage anaerobic digestion of poultry manure: Optimization and statistical modelling.Post-hydrolysis ammonia stripping was investigated as a new approach to enhance the methane potential of high ammonia substrates, such as poultry manure. The objective of the proposed approach is to address some of the noticeable disadvantages in the existing ammonia-stripping techniques i.e., treatment of raw samples and side-stream stripping. Poultry manure (PM) and a co-substrate (mixed wastes from a cheese factory and a coffee house, referred to as MS) characterized by a high carbon-to-nitrogen ratio were mixed at five different ratios: PM:MS of 100:0, 75:25, 50:50, 25:75, and 0:100. Samples were hydrolyzed for six days to promote ammonia conversion from organic nitrogen and then the samples with higher ammonia levels (>2000 mg NH-N/L) were stripped with air at initial pH values of 9 and 10 and temperatures of 40 and 55 °C. Biochemical methane potential (BMP) test results showed that post-hydrolysis ammonia stripping had alleviated ammonia inhibition and improved methane potential up to 200% when compared with untreated samples. The ammonia removal efficiency was mostly affected by pH. On the other hand, methane potential was highest in the samples treated at a higher temperature as their biodegradability was enhanced when compared with the samples treated at lower temperatures. Post-BMP characterization showed that the proposed approach had also limited the increase of ammonia in the digestate which ensured proper growth of methanogenic microorganisms.

Enhanced methane production kinetics by graphene oxide in fed-batch tests.The study aims to prove that the addition of graphene oxide (GO) improves anaerobic digestion (AD) kinetic performance. Classical batch tests were modified to a fed-batch strategy at four GO levels while using two substrates (glucose and microcrystalline cellulose (MCC)). First-order and modified Gompertz models were respectively applied to evaluate the kinetic performance. The results showed significantly (p < 0.05) improved kinetic from the third refeeding step for both substrates. 20 mg GO per g of volatile solids (VS) led to an increase of up to 210% for the first-order rate constant (k) and up to 120% for maximum biochemical methane potential (BMP) rate (R) compared to control for glucose and MCC, respectively. The findings of this work suggest the implementation of GO in continuously operated systems to accelerate the AD process.

Transcriptome change of Staphylococcus aureus in infected mouse liver.We performed in vivo RNA-sequencing analysis of Staphylococcus aureus in infected mouse liver using the 2-step cell-crush method. We compared the transcriptome of S. aureus at 6, 24, and 48 h post-infection (h.p.i) in mice and in culture medium. Genes related to anaerobic respiration were highly upregulated at 24 and 48 h.p.i. The gene expression patterns of virulence factors differed depending on the type of toxin. For example, hemolysins, but not leukotoxins and serine proteases, were highly upregulated at 6 h.p.i. Gene expression of metal transporters, such as iron transporters, gradually increased at 24 and 48 h.p.i. We also analyzed the transcriptome of mouse liver infected with S. aureus. Hypoxia response genes were upregulated at 24 and 48 h.p.i., and immune response genes were upregulated from 6 h.p.i. These findings suggest that gene expression of S. aureus in the host changes in response to changes in the host environment, such as the oxygenation status or immune system attacks during infection.

Methane production of banana plant: Yield, kinetics and prediction models influenced by morphological parts, cultivars and ripening stages.Banana trees and fruits with three ripening stages, including green, ripe, and overripe, of two cultivars, namely Nam wa and Hom were separated into different morphological parts for biogas yield determination. Specific methane yields (SMY) were significant different among banana parts (p ≤ 0.05). High non-structural carbohydrates and high non-lignocellulosic residual in substrates promoted high SMY. Pseudostem showed the highest share of energy yields among farm wastes which Nam wa cultivar provided higher energy potential than Hom. Peel presented the major energy source from fruit wastes which ripening stages did not have a significant effect on its SMY. Modified Gompertz model presented the best fit for methane production of most substrates. The SMY prediction models based on chemical constituents were developed to obtain conveniently used methane estimating tool which showed that a combination of lignin, hemicellulose, non-lignocellulosic residual, and crude fiber contents presented the highest performance for banana substrates.

Potassium permanganate pretreatment effectively improves methane production from anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge: Reaction kinetics and mechanisms.As a powerful oxidizing agent, potassium permanganate (KMnO) has attracted widespread interest in sludge treatment and contaminant removal. However, its effect on the anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge (WAS) is ambiguous. This investigation was designed to provide perspectives into this problem. In comparison with the control, 0.3 g KMnO/g TSS pretreatment enhanced the methane production by 78.82 %. Model analysis demonstrated that the KMnO pretreatment enhanced the biochemical methane potential (B) of WAS. Mechanistic studies elucidated that the KMnO pretreatment process generated reactive radicals such as ·OH, ·O and O, which contributed to sludge disintegration and biodegradation process of dissolved substances, thus resulting in more substances available for subsequent methane generation. Enzyme activity analysis indicated that KMnO pretreatment facilitated the activities of key enzymes associated with anaerobic digestion to various degrees. Microbial analysis illustrated that the relative abundance of functional microorganisms was significantly elevated after KMnO pretreatment, which was conducive to methane production.

Soy-whey dual-protein alleviates osteoporosis of ovariectomized rats via regulating bone fat metabolism through gut-liver-bone axis.Osteoporosis is increasingly prevalent, especially among postmenopausal women, both in China and worldwide. In previous work, soy-whey dual-protein (DP) intervention improved muscle status via regulation of gut microbiota. However, little information is available about the relationship between DP supplementation and osteoporosis.
In this study, the ovariectomized rat model was used to detect the effect of DP on improving osteoporosis.
Significant improvement was observed in bone mineral density, bone microstructure, and bone biomechanics with both DP and zoledronic acid (positive control) intervention. DP supplementation dramatically reduced the levels of serum osteocalcin and parathyroid hormone in ovariectomized rats. Ingestion of DP also resulted in a significant decrease in the number of bone marrow adipocytes and a marked increase in the number of osteoblasts, accompanied by elevated expression of the key regulator osteoprotegerin at both mRNA and protein levels. In the analysis of fecal metabolites and intestinal microbiota, the fat metabolism-related molecules chenodeoxycholate, 21-hydroxypregnenolone, and tetrahydrocorticosterone were markedly upregulated with DP treatment, whereas the content of fatty acids such as oleic acid were significantly downregulated. The abundance of three bacterial taxa (upregulated: Ruminococcaceae UCG_002; downregulated: anaerobic digester metagenome and Enterorhabdus) dramatically changed with DP intervention and was closely associated with fat metabolism-related metabolite content CONCLUSION: These results suggest that DP intervention could improve osteoporosis via regulation of bone marrow adipose tissue content and mesenchymal stem cell lineage differentiation. Furthermore, this effect might be mediated by the interaction between intestinal microbiota and metabolites.

Evaluating the impact of substrate addition for anaerobic co-digestion on biogas production and digestate quality: The case of deinking sludge.To reduce greenhouse gas emissions from organic waste, anaerobic digestion has created new opportunities for energy and nutrient recovery from these wastes. However, the use of certain organic wastes in anaerobic digestion is limited due to their atypical physicochemical characteristics (e.g. unbalanced carbon to nitrogen ratio, high ash concentration). Deinking sludge is a residue from the paper recycling industry and is one of such substrates. This study aims at evaluating the impact of deinking sludge (DS) addition into a conventional co-digestion mixture on methane production and digestate quality. To this end, an integrated method was proposed, combining the analysis of physicochemical and biodegradability characteristics with parsimonious modeling using the SYS-Metha tool. The measured characteristics of the deinking sludge showed that its potential use in mono-digestion conditions is very limited. When co-digested with food waste and municipal sludge, no significant synergies or antagonisms were found. Based on these experiments, model simulations were executed to determine the optimal conditions for co-digestion with food waste and municipal sludge. A maximum of 22% of deinking sludge on a fresh mass basis can be added into a co-digestion mixture to achieve proper wet anaerobic digestion conditions. Regarding digestate quality, the addition of DS reduced nutrient and contaminants concentrations, which have an impact on digestate management, particularly for land application. Overall, the proposed methodology in this study allows determining optimal co-digestion mixtures and highlighted the limits needing further investigation under pilot/real conditions.

Evaluation of electro-oxidation and Fenton pretreatments on industrial fruit waste and municipal sewage sludge to enhance biogas production by anaerobic co-digestion.This study presents the effect of electro-oxidation and Fenton pre-treatment on anaerobic co-digestion (AnCoD) of fruit-juice industrial waste (FJW) and municipal sewage sludge (MSS). Biogas production increased from 767 mL to 857 mL and 918 mL after EO and Fenton pretreatment, respectively. The methane amount increased by 28% and 39% for EO and Fenton processes. The removal efficiencies of soluble COD, carbohydrate, and protein for the conditions with the highest biogas production as a result of the pretreatment process were 48%, 65%, 61% for the Fenton pre-treatment, and 37%, 52%, and 39% for the EO pre-treatment, respectively. Cumulative biogas production efficiency for all pre-treated mixtures was estimated with kinetic models. In addition, an evaluation has been made regarding cost, economic gain, and energy consumption of the pre-treatment processes.

Integrated system of anaerobic digestion and pyrolysis for valorization of agricultural and food waste towards circular bioeconomy: Review.Agricultural and food waste have become major issue affecting the environment and climate owing to growing population. However, such wastes have potential to produce renewable fuels which will help to meet energy demands. Numerous valorization pathways like anaerobic digestion, pyrolysis, composting and landfilling have been employed for treating such wastes. However, it requires integrated system that could utilize waste and promote circular bioeconomy. This review explores integration of anaerobic digestion and pyrolysis for treating agricultural and food waste. Proposed system examines the production of biochar and pyro-oil by pyrolysis of digestate. The use of this biochar for stabilizing anaerobic digestion process, biogas purification and soil amendment will promote the circular bioeconomy. Kinetic models and framework of techno-economic analysis of system were discussed and knowledge gaps have been identified for future research. This system will provide sustainable approach and offer carbon capture and storage in form of biochar in soil.

Bioreactor-scale production of rhamnolipids from food waste digestate and its recirculation into anaerobic digestion for enhanced process performance: Creating closed-loop integrated biorefinery framework.Reaching industrially relevant productivities in bioprocesses and their efficient integration in the existing industrial infrastructure remain as important challenges in the circular economy to create closed loop sustainability framework. Using anaerobic digestion (AD) biorefinery as a model, the present work addressed these problems via integration of next-generation rhamnolipids production with AD. A high rhamnolipids concentration of 10.25 ± 1.34 g/L was obtained by fed-batch fermentation using food waste digestate as medium. Digestate-derived rhamnolipids contained Rha-C-C and Rha-Rha-C-C as the predominant congeners. These were used back in single-phase AD to demonstrate their effect on sludge solubilization and digestion efficiency. A dosage of 0.02 g rhamnolipids/g total suspended solids was found to be optimal which enhanced the hydrolysis-acidogenesis reactions to up to 27% over control. It however retarded methane production which could be overcome by the prolongation of digestion time. Finally, the value chain appreciation by the proposed process was demonstrated by a feasibility analysis.

Gamma distribution function to understand anaerobic digestion kinetics: Kinetic constants are not constant.The Gamma model is a novel approach to characterise the complex degradation dynamics taking place during anaerobic digestion. This three parameters model results from combining the first-order kinetic model and the Gamma distribution function. In contrast to conventional models, where the kinetic constant is considered invariant, the Gamma model allows analysing the variability of the kinetic constant using a probability density function. The kinetic constant of mono-digestion and co-digestion batch tests of different wastes were modelled using the Gamma model and two common first-order models: one-step one-fraction model and one-step two-fraction model. The Gamma distribution function approximates three distinct probability density functions, i.e. exponential, log-normal, and delta Dirac. Specifically, (i) cattle paunch and pig manure approximated a log-normal distribution; (ii) cattle manure and microalgae approximated an exponential distribution, and (iii) primary sludge and cellulose approximated a delta Dirac distribution. The Gamma model was able to characterise two distinct waste activated sludge, one approximated to a log-normal distribution and the other to an exponential distribution. The same cellulose was tested with two different inocula; in both tests, the Gamma distribution function approximated a delta Dirac function but with a different kinetic value. The potential and consistency of Gamma model were also evident when analysing pig manure and microalgae co-digestion batch tests since (i) the mean k of the co-digestion tests were within the values of the mono-digestion tests, and (ii) the profile of the density function transitioned from log-normal to exponential distribution as the percentage of microalgae in the mixture increased.

The advantages of co-digestion of vegetable oil industry by-products and sewage sludge: Biogas production potential, kinetic analysis and digestate valorisation.The production of edible vegetable oils generates considerable amounts of energy-rich waste, which is usually not utilised fully. Besides, inefficient management of such wastes can have a negative impact on the environment. On the other hand, this waste can also serve as a raw material for the production of high value-added products, such is biogas. The mono-digestion of seven different by-products and wastes from the vegetable oil industry was investigated in this study: Pumpkin seeds press cake (PSPC), grape seeds press cake (GSPC), olive mill pomace (OMP), coconut oil cake (CC), filtration additive (FA), spent bleaching earth (SBE) and sludge from a vegetable oil industry (SOI) wastewater treatment plant. In addition, co-digestion of these substrates was performed with municipal sewage sludge (SS). Besides inoculum, rumen fluid was added to the reactors to enhance biogas production. The biogas production potential of the tested substrates was monitored by measuring various parameters. A kinetic analysis was later carried out and a growth test was performed on the digestates to evaluate their potential for agricultural use. The highest biogas yields in the mono-digestion test were obtained with the substrates with the highest fat content: 1402, 1288, 830 and 750 mL of biogas/gVS for SOI, FA, PSPC and CC substrate, respectively. Co-digestion of SS with by-products of vegetable oil industry such as FA, SBE, CC, SOI and PSPC increased the biogas yields by 94.9%, 74.1%, 30.8%, 27.4% and 23.6% compared to SS mono-digestion. Furthermore, the data for mono-digestion of PSPC, GSPC, and FA, and co-digestion of SS with these substrates, CC and SBE, have not been found in the literature to date. The maximum methane content ranged from 61 to 74 vol%, while the chemical oxygen demand removal efficiency ranged from 42 to 78%. Relatively high fatty acids contents and ammonium concentrations were measured in the reactors. Kinetic analysis showed the best fit to the experimental data for the Cone kinetic model (R > 0.98). The First order kinetic model, Monod, and the modified Gompertz model also exhibited high R values. The digestates obtained from co-digestion proved to be excellent in the cress seeds growth test at digestate concentrations of 5-10 wt%, while higher concentrations had a toxic effect.

Anaerobic biogas formation from crops' agricultural residues - Modeling investigations.The cultivation of field crops necessarily produces large quantities of organic residues, which could be used for the production of biogas. However, this is only successfully possible if the operators of such biogas plants have sufficient expertise in running these plants, e.g. to avoid an overload of the biogas system. Against this background, the anaerobic degradability of various Egyptian agricultural residues is determined by laboratory testing; this includes both a determination of degradation behavior in batch tests and a feed analysis. The residues studied produce biogas yields ranging from 303 to 496 mL g. Co-digestion experiments demonstrate that hardly any interaction effects occur during the fermentation process for different mixtures of the investigated residues. Based on these findings, a model is developed to estimate biogas production using the investigated agricultural residues in continuous operation and to give recommendations for the optimal mode of operation.

Producing organic amendments: Physicochemical changes in biowaste used in anaerobic digestion, composting, and fermentation.Organic amendments (OAs) produced via composting, anaerobic digestion, or lactic acid fermentation, can be used to replenish soil carbon. Not all OAs production technologies preserve C and nutrients in the same way. In this study, we compared the influence of these technologies (i.e., treatments) on C and nutrient preservation and OAs chemical composition after production. We produced compost, digestate, and lactic-acid fermentation product using the same biowaste-resembling model substrate using three reactors under laboratory conditions. We compared the chemical conversions and end-products using mass balances over C, N, and P. Overall results show that losses are minimal under reducing production conditions. Fermentation and digestion conserved 99% and 64% of C; and 93% and 100% of N, respectively. While compost conservation of nutrients was limited to 25% of C and 38% of N. Digestate had the highest concentrations of C, N, and P in the water-soluble phase, enabling their accessibility for soil microbes. Concentrations in the fermentation product were one order of magnitude lower but still higher than in compost. The treatments also influence the final availability of C, N, and P, which could potentially improve the fertilising and soil-improving properties of produced OAs. Our results show that under reducing conditions, losses of C, N, and P can be decreased while increasing OAs applications in terms of sources for soil-microbial development.

Investigating microbial dynamics and potential advantages of anaerobic co-digestion of cheese whey and poultry slaughterhouse wastewaters.Resource recovery and prevention of environmental pollution are key goals for sustainable development. It is widely reported that agro-industrial activities are responsible for the discharge of billions of liters of wastewater to the environment. Anaerobic digestion of these energy rich agro-industrial wastewaters can simultaneously mitigate environmental pollution and recover embedded energy as methane gas. In this study, an assessment of mono- and co-digestion of cheese whey wastewater (CWW) and poultry slaughterhouse wastewater (PSW) was conducted in 2.25-L lab-scale anaerobic digesters. Treatment combinations evaluated included CWW (R1), PSW (R2), 75:25 CWW:PSW (R3), 25:75 CWW:PSW (R4), and 50:50 CWW:PSW (R5). The digestion efficiencies of the mixed wastewaters were compared to the weighted efficiencies of the corresponding combined mono-digested samples. R4, with a mixture of 25% CWW and 75% PSW, achieved the greatest treatment efficiency. This corresponded with an average biodegradability of 84%, which was greater than for R1 and R2 at 68.5 and 71.9%, respectively. Similarly, R4 produced the highest average cumulative methane value compared to R1 and R2 at 1.22× and 1.39× for similar COD loading, respectively. The modified Gompertz model provided the best fit for the obtained methane production data, with lag time decreasing over progressive treatment cycles. PCoA and heatmap analysis of relative microbial abundances indicated a divergence of microbial communities based on feed type over the treatment cycles. Microbial community analysis showed that genus Petrimonas attained the highest relative abundance (RA) at up to 38.9% in the first two cycles, then subsequently decreased to near 0% for all reactors. Syntrophomonas was highly abundant in PSW reactors, reaching up to 36% RA. Acinetobacter was present mostly in CWW reactors with a RA reaching 56.5%. The methanogenic community was dominated by Methanothrix (84.3-99.9% of archaea). The presence of phosphate and Acinetobacter in CWW feed appeared to reduce the treatment efficiency of associated reactors. Despite Acinetobacter being strictly aerobic, previous and current results indicate its survival under anaerobic conditions, with the storage of phosphate likely playing a key role in its ability to scavenge acetate during the digestion process.

Usefulness of Optimized Human Fecal Material in Simulating the Bacterial Degradation of Sulindac and Sulfinpyrazone in the Lower Intestine.The first aim of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of optimized human fecal material in simulating sulforeductase activity in the lower intestine by assessing bacterial degradation of sulindac and sulfinpyrazone, two sulforeductase substrates. The second aim was to evaluate the usefulness of drug degradation half-life generated in simulated colonic bacteria (SCoB) in informing PBPK models. Degradation experiments of sulfinpyrazone and of sulindac in SCoB were performed under anaerobic conditions using recently described methods. For sulfinpyrazone, the abundance of clinical data allowed for construction of a physiologically based pharmacokinetic (PBPK) model and evaluation of luminal degradation clearance determined from SCoB data. For sulindac, the availability of sulindac sulfide and sulindac sulfone standards allowed for evaluating the formation of the main metabolite, sulindac sulfide, during the experiments in SCoB. Both model compounds degraded substantially in SCoB. The PBPK model was able to adequately capture exposure of sulfinpyrazone and its sulfide metabolite in healthy subjects, in ileostomy and/or colectomy subjects, and in healthy subjects pretreated with metoclopramide by implementing degradation half-lives in SCoB to calculate intrinsic colon clearance. Degradation rates of sulindac and formation rates of sulindac sulfide in SCoB were almost identical, in line with  data suggesting the sulindac sulfide is the primary metabolite in the lower intestine. Experiments in SCoB were useful in simulating sulforeductase related bacterial degradation activity in the lower intestine. Degradation half-life calculated from experiments in SCoB is proven useful for informing a predictive PBPK model for sulfinpyrazone.

Application of mathematical optimization to exploit regional nutrient recycling potential of biogas plant digestate.Nutrients can be circulated back to agriculture from waste streams through anaerobic digestion and digestate processing. Digestate processing, however, is making slow progress as circulated nutrient products have not been cost competitive compared to fossil fertilizers and not designed from the farmer's perspective to truly match with the regional nutrient need. In this study, the aim is to assess apply mathematical optimization to the design of a cost-optimal processing route for a biogas plant's digestate to produce fertilizer products based on specified regional needs. Another aim is to analyze whether such a cost-optimal solution can fully exploit the nutrient recycling potential, that is, the efficiency of such a solution in returning nutrients to agriculture. The results indicate that mathematical optimization allows the design of a cost-optimal digestate production routes based on the region's nutrient need and characteristics. The true cost optimum was found for a design combining three processing technologies and producing four nutrient products, which when mixed, would fulfil farmer's fertilization needs. However, there seems to be a conflict between an optimal economic design and a full exploitation of recycling potential as only 25% of the digestate's phosphorus was utilized within the case region. This is because only 29% of the digestate mass was used and processed as fertilizer, as the concentration of required nutrients was deemed too low for economic use. The proposed mathematical model could be implemented as tool to assist in biogas plant investment decisions.

Emodin targeting the colonic metabolism via PPARγ alleviates UC by inhibiting facultative anaerobe.Emodin is an active ingredient of traditional Chinese medicine Rheum palmatum L. and Polygonum cuspidatum, which possesses anti-inflammatory and intestinal mucosal protection effects. Our previous study found that emodin significantly alleviated ulcerative colitis induced by sodium dextran sulfate (DSS). In this study, we found the underlying mechanism of emodin on ulcerative colitis (UC).
We aimed to further explore the mechanism of emodin in the treatment of ulcerative colitis from the perspective of metabolism and intestinal flora.
Ulcerative colitis was induced by 3% sodium dextran sulfate (DSS) on mice, and the mice were respectively treated with mesalazine, rosiglitazone, emodin, and emodin combined with GW9662 (PPARγ inhibitor) simultaneously. Weight changes, the disease activity index (DAI), colonic length, and pathologic changes in colon were used to evaluate the efficacy of emodin. LC-MS/MS was performed for metabolomics analysis of colon. In addition, intestinal flora was assessed using 16S rDNA sequencing. A vector-based short hairpin RNA (shRNA) method was used to silence PPARγ gene expression in Caco-2 cells.
Emodin binds to the active site of PPARγ protein and forms hydrogen bond interaction with ARG288 and CYS285 amino acids. Furthermore, Emodin significantly promotes the protein expression of PPARγ, while inhibiting iNOS and NF-kB p65 in UC mice, however, this effect is hardly shown when it is combined with GW9662 (the inhibitor of PPARγ). Meanwhile, emodin suppresses the expression of iNOS in Caco-2 cells induced with IFNγ and IL-22, but has no effect on its expression in shPPARγ-Caco-2 cells. In addition, through activating PPARγ signal pathway, emodin is capable of regulating colonic metabolism including oxidative phosphorylation and citrulline metabolism and effecting luminal availability of oxygen and nitrate. This promotes the recovery of anoxic environment of colon epithelial cells, which strains the growth and expansion of Enterobacteriaceae.
The mechanism of Emodin in the treatment of ulcerative colitis relies on its regulation of PPARγ signal pathway, which could modulate colonic metabolism and restore intestinal homeostasis.

Performance evaluation and kinetics modeling of a hybrid UASB reactor treating bovine slaughterhouse wastewater.This work aimed to analyze the performance of a hybrid upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (HUASB) reactor packed with natural zeolite for slaughterhouse wastewater treatment through kinetics modeling. Wastewater samples from a municipal bovine slaughterhouse were sieved through a 1-mm mesh screen and thermally pretreated in an autoclave. Then, biological treatment was carried out in a HUASB reactor packed with a zeolite filter at the top. Slaughterhouse wastewater was diluted with municipal wastewater during the start-up period to achieve a low organic loading rate (OLR) (3.4 kg chemical oxygen demand (COD)/m/day); afterward, it gradually increased until dilution was eliminated, reaching 14.4 kg COD/m/day. At this OLR, the maximum percentage removals of total COD, soluble COD, total solid, and volatile solid (67.7%, 68.3%, 55.2%, and 72.1%, respectively) were found. Moreover, the zeolite filter enabled NH-N and PO-P removal, with the highest values (32.8% and 35%, respectively) at 9.8 kg COD/m/day. Thus, the natural zeolite filter improved the reactor's performance. Among all equations analyzed, the modified Stover-Kincannon equation correctly fitted the results and provided the best prediction of the HUASB reactor's performance.

Review on solid-state anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic biomass and organic solid waste.Sustainable management of organic solid wastes especially the municipal solid waste (MSW) is essential for the realization of various sustainable development goals (SDGs). Resource recovery centric waste processing technologies generate valorizable products to meet the operations and maintenance (O&M) costs while reducing the GHG emissions. Solid-state anaerobic digestion (SSAD) of organic solid wastes is a biomethanation process performed at a relatively higher total solids (TS) loading in the range of 10-45%. SSAD overcomes various limitations posed by conventional anaerobic slurry digesters such as higher degradable matter per unit volume of the bioreactor resulting in a smaller footprint, low freshwater consumption, low wastewater generation, simple upstream and downstream processes, relatively lower operation, and maintenance costs. This review elucidates the recent developments and critical assessment of different aspects of SSAD, such as bioreactor design, operational strategy, process performances, mass balance, microbial ecology, applications, and mathematical models. A critical assessment revealed that the operating scale of SSAD varies between 1000 and 100,000 ts/year at organic loading rate (OLR) of 2-15 g volatile solids (VS)/L·day. The SSAD experiences process failures due to the formation of volatile fatty acids (VFAs), biogas pockets and clogging of the digestate outlet. Acclimatization of microbes accelerates the startup phase, steady-state performances, and the enrichment of syntrophic microbes with 10-50 times greater population of cellulolytic and xylanolytic microbes in thermophilic SSAD over mesophilic SSAD. Experimental limitations in the accurate determination of rate constants and the oversimplification of biochemical reactions result in an inaccurate prediction by the models.

Biogas production from residual marine macroalgae biomass: Kinetic modelling approach.Modelling the conversion of residual biomass to renewable fuels is of high relevance to promote the development of effective technological solutions. The present study compares the performance of five different kinetic models (pseudo-first-order kinetics, logistics, modified Gompertz, double-Gompertz, and multi-Gompertz) to describe the cumulative methane production during a low-solids anaerobic digestion of marine macroalgae waste. Different substrate concentrations were evaluated (0.9, 1.7 and 2.5% TS) with the best methane yield (105.2 mL CH.g VS) being obtained at the highest amount of biomass. All models fitted the experimental data with R > 0.988. The innovative multi-Gompertz model herein proposed led to the best performance indexes for all tested experimental conditions, allowing to predict methane yields more accurately when the digestion occurs in two or more steps, as it was the case with marine macroalgae waste.

Trichococcus flocculiformis Syntrophomonas wolfei Methanospirillum hungatei
Stimulating Effect of  on a Coculture of  and .Syntrophic anaerobic consortia comprised of fatty acid-degrading bacteria and hydrogen/formate-scavenging methanogenic archaea are of central importance for balanced and resilient natural and manufactured ecosystems: anoxic sediments, soils, and wastewater treatment bioreactors. Previously published studies investigated interaction between the syntrophic bi-cultures, but little information is available on the influence of fermentative bacteria on syntrophic fatty acid oxidation, even though fermentative organisms are always present together with syntrophic partners in the above-mentioned ecosystems. Here, we present experimental observations of stimulated butyrate oxidation and methane generation by a coculture of Syntrophomonas wolfei with any of the following methanogens: Methanospirillum hungatei, Methanobrevibacter arboriphilus, or Methanobacterium formicicum due to the addition of a fermentative Trichococcus flocculiformis strain ES5. The addition of  ES5 to the syntrophic cocultures led to an increase in the rates of butyrate consumption (120%) and volumetric methane production (150%). Scanning electron microscopy of the most positively affected coculture (S. wolfei, , and  ES5) revealed a tendency of  ES5 to aggregate with the syntrophic partners. Analysis of coculture's proteome with or without addition of the fermentative bacterium points to a potential link with signal transducing systems of , as well as activation of additional butyryl coenzyme A dehydrogenase and an electron transfer flavoprotein in S. wolfei.  Results from the present study open doors to fascinating research on complex microbial cultures in anaerobic environments (of biotechnological and ecological relevance). Such studies of defined mixed populations are critical to understanding the highly intertwined natural and engineered microbial systems and to developing more reliable and trustable metabolic models. By investigating the existing cultured microbial consortia, like the ones described here, we can acquire knowledge on microbial interactions that go beyond "who feeds whom" relations but yet benefit the parties involved. Transfer of signaling compounds and stimulation of gene expression are examples of indirect influence that members of mixed communities can exert on each other. Understanding such microbial relationships will enable development of new sustainable biotechnologies with mixed microbial cocultures and contribute to the general understanding of the complex natural microbial interactions.

A Kinetic Model for Anaerobic Digestion and Biogas Production of Plant Biomass under High Salinity.The aim of this study is to evaluate the anaerobic digestion and biogas production of plant biomass under high salinity by adopting a theoretical and technical approach for saline plant-biomass treatment. Two completely mixed lab-scale mesophilic reactors were operated for 480 days. In one of them, NaCl was added and the sodium ion concentration was maintained at 35.8 g-Na·L, and the organic loading rate was 0.58-COD·L·d-1.5 g-COD·L·d; the other added NaSO-NaHCO and kept the sodium ion concentration at 27.6 g-Na·L and the organic loading rate at 0.2 g-COD·L·d-0.8 g-COD·L·d. The conversion efficiencies of the two systems (COD to methane) were 66% and 54%, respectively. Based on the sulfate-reduction reaction and the existing anaerobic digestion model, a kinetic model comprising 12 types of soluble substrates and 16 types of anaerobic microorganisms was developed. The model was used to simulate the process performance of a continuous anaerobic bioreactor with a mixed liquor suspended solids (MLSS) concentration of 10 g·L-40 g·L. The results showed that the NaCl system could receive the influent up to a loading rate of 0.16 kg-COD/kg-MLSS·d without significant degradation of the methane conversion at 66%, while the NaSO-NaHCO system could receive more than 2 kg-COD·kg-MLSS·d, where 54% of the fed chemical oxygen demand (COD) was converted into methane and another 12% was observed to be sulfide.

Modeling a propionate-oxidizing syntrophic coculture using thermodynamic principles.A coculture of Syntrophobacter fumaroxidans and Methanospirillum hungatei was modeled using four biokinetic models, which only differed by the functions used to describe the growth yields (dynamic or constant) and the hydrogen inhibition function (noncompetitive or based on thermodynamics). First, a batch experiment was used to train the model and analyze the fitted parameters. Two fitting procedures were followed by minimizing the error on different indicators. Second, a chemostat experiment was used as a test data set to assess the predictive power of the models. Overall, the four models were able to accurately fit the train data set following both fitting procedures. However, some parameters fitted with the ADM1-like model differed significantly from values reported in the literature and were dependent on the fitting procedure. When applied to the test data set it systematically resulted in positive Gibbs free energy changes values for propionate oxidation, in contradiction with the second law of thermodynamics. On the opposite, the parameters fitted with model including both a thermodynamic-based inhibition function and a dynamic computation of growth yields were more consistent with values reported in the literature and repeatable whatever the fitting procedure. The results highlight the potential of implementing thermodynamic-based functions in biokinetic models.

Microbial electrochemical ammonia recovery from anaerobic digester centrate and subsequent application to fertilize Arabidopsis thaliana.Although ammonia recovery from wastewater can be environmentally friendly and energy efficient compared to the conventional Haber-Bosch process, there is a lack of research on the reuse of the recovered ammonia to exhibit a complete picture of resource recovery. In this study, a microbial electrochemical system (MES) was used to recover ammonia from a mixture of anaerobic digester (AD) centrate and food wastewater at a volume ratio of 3:1. More than 60% of ammonia nitrogen was recovered with energy consumption of 2.7 kWh kg N. The catholyte of the MES, which contained the recovered ammonia, was used to prepare fertilizers to support the growth of a model plant Arabidopsis thaliana. It was observed that A. thaliana grown on the MES generated fertilizer amended with extra potassium, phosphorus, and trace elements showed comparable sizes and an even lower death rate (0%) than the control group (24%) that was added with a commercial fertilizer. RNA-Seq analyses were used to examine A. thaliana genetic responses to the MES generated fertilizers or the commercial counterpart. The comparative study offered metabolic insights into A. thaliana physiologies subject to the recovered nitrogen fertilizers. The results of this study have demonstrated the potential application of using the recovered ammonia from AD centrate as a nitrogen source in fertilizer and identified the necessity of supplementing other nutrient elements.

Agronomic characterization of anaerobic digestates with near-infrared spectroscopy.Anaerobic digestion is an increasingly widespread process for organic waste treatment and renewable energy production due to the methane content of the biogas. This biological process also produces a digestate (i.e., the remaining content of the waste after treatment) with a high fertilizing potential. The digestate composition is highly variable due to the various organic wastes used as feedstock, the different plant configurations, and the post-treatment processes used. In order to optimize digestate spreading on agricultural soils by optimizing the fertilizer dose and, thus, reducing environmental impacts associated to digestate application, the agronomic characterization of digestate is essential. This study investigates the use of near infrared spectroscopy for predicting the most important agronomic parameters from freeze-dried digestates. A data set of 193 digestates was created to calibrate partial least squares regression models predicting organic matter, total organic carbon, organic nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium contents. The calibration range of the models were between 249.8 and 878.6 gOM.kgDM, 171.9 and 499.5 gC.kgDM, 5.3 and 74.1 gN.kgDM, 2.7 and 44.9 gP.kgDM and between 0.5 and 171.8 gK.kgDM, respectively. The calibrated models reliably predicted organic matter, total organic carbon, and phosphorus contents for the whole diversity of digestates with root mean square errors of prediction of 70.51 gOM.kgDM, 34.84 gC.kgDM and 4.08 gP.kgDM, respectively. On the other hand, the model prediction of the organic nitrogen content had a root mean square error of 7.55 gN.kgDM and was considered as acceptable. Lastly, the results did not demonstrate the feasibility of predicting the potassium content in digestates with near infrared spectroscopy. These results show that near infrared spectroscopy is a very promising analytical method for the characterization of the fertilizing value of digestates, which could provide large benefits in terms of analysis time and cost.

Effects of chemical pretreatments on material solubilization of Areca catechu L. husk: Digestion, biodegradability, and kinetic studies for biogas yield.This study aimed to understand the pretreatment-aided anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic residues and to assess the substrate solubilization capacity of pretreatment processes. We evaluated the feasibility of biogas production using chemically pretreated Areca catechu L. (Arecanut husk, AH). AH was pretreated for 24h at two different temperatures-25 °C and 90 °C with four different chemicals viz. HSO (acidic), NaOH (alkaline), HO (oxidative), and ethanol in 1% HSO (organosolv) under each temperature. AH solubilization assessment included analyses of parameters such as volatile solids to total solids (VS:TS) ratio, soluble chemical oxygen demand, total phenolic content, and biomass composition. Alkaline pretreatment of AH at 90 °C resulted in the maximum biogas yield of 683.89mL/gVS, which was 2.3 times more than that obtained using raw AH without pretreatment. Methane content of biogas produced using AH pretreated with 2-10% of NaOH was found to be between 71.53% and 75.06%; methane content of biogas using raw AH was 62.31%. In order to describe the AH degradation patterns, biogas production potential from pretreated AH was evaluated using bacterial kinetic growth models (First-order exponential, logistic, transference, and modified Gompertz models). The modified Gompertz and logistic models (correlation coefficient >0.99) were found to have the best fit of all kinetic models for the cumulative experimental biogas curve. We formulated a multiple linear regression equation depicting the biodegradability index (BI) as a technical tool to determine biomethane production; BI is represented as a function of biomass composition (cellulose, hemicellulose, and lignin), with a high correlation (>0.95). Based on our analyses of AH pretreatment and substrate utilization for biogas production, we propose that the biochemical composition of lignocellulosic residues should be carefully considered to ensure their biodegradability when subjected to anaerobic digestion.

Deploying two-stage anaerobic process to co-digest greasy sludge and waste activated sludge for effective waste treatment and biogas recovery.High-strength waste activated sludge (WAS) and greasy sludge (GS) were largely generated from canned tuna processing. This study reports the performance of the two-stage anaerobic process for co-digesting WAS and GS. Various WAS:GS mixing ratios of 0:100, 10:90, 20:80, 30:70, 40:60, 50:50, 60:40, 70:30, 80:20, 90:10, and 100:00 (volatile solids (VS) basis) were investigated in batch acidogenic stage at ambient (30 °C ± 3 °C), 55 °C, and 60 °C temperatures. Subsequently, the effluents from the first stage were used to produce methane in the second methanogenic stage at an ambient temperature. The highest methane yield of 609 mL CH/g-VS was achieved using acidogenic effluents generated from a WAS:GS mixing ratio of 40:60 at an ambient temperature. The first-order kinetic constants (k) for the first (k) and second (k) stages were subsequently estimated to be 0.457 d and 0.139 d, respectively. The obtained k constants were further used to predict the hydraulic retention time (HRT) for the two continuously stirred tank reactors (CSTR) in series. Consequently, the calculated 4-day HRT and 20-day HRT for 50-L CSTR and 250-L CSTR, respectively, were used to operate the continuous two-stage process at an ambient temperature by feeding with a 40:60-WAS:GS mixing ratio. A satisfactory methane yield of 470-mL CH/g-VS along with 75% chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal was generated. Furthermore, the predicted methane yield of 450-mL CH/g-VS obtained from the simple kinetic CSTR model resembled the experimental yield with 96% accuracy. The obtained experimental results demonstrate that WAS and GS co-digestion could be successfully accomplished using a practical two-stage anaerobic process operated at an ambient temperature.

A Dual Enrichment Strategy Provides Soil- and Digestate-Competent Nitrous Oxide-Respiring Bacteria for Mitigating Climate Forcing in Agriculture.Manipulating soil metabolism through heavy inoculation with microbes is feasible if organic wastes can be utilized as the substrate for growth and vector as a fertilizer. This, however, requires organisms active in both digestate and soil (generalists). Here, we present a dual enrichment strategy to enrich and isolate such generalists among NO-respiring bacteria (NRB) in soil and digestates, to be used as an inoculum for strengthening the NO-reduction capacity of soils. The enrichment strategy utilizes sequential batch enrichment cultures alternating between sterilized digestate and soil as substrates, with each batch initiated with limited O and unlimited NO. The cultures were monitored for gas kinetics and community composition. As predicted by a Lotka-Volterra competition model, cluster analysis identified generalist operational taxonomic units (OTUs) which became dominant, digestate/soil-specialists which did not, and a majority that were gradually diluted out. We isolated several NRBs circumscribed by generalist OTUs. Their denitrification genes and phenotypes predicted a variable capacity to act as NO-sinks, while all genomes predicted broad catabolic capacity. The latter contrasts with previous attempts to enrich NRB by anaerobic incubation of unsterilized digestate only, which selected for organisms with a catabolic capacity limited to fermentation products. The two isolates with the most promising characteristics as NO sinks were  Pseudomonas sp. with a full-fledged denitrification-pathway and a  sp. carrying only NO reductase (clade II), and soil experiments confirmed their capacity to reduce NO-emissions from soil. The successful enrichment of NRB with broad catabolic spectra suggests that the concept of dual enrichment should also be applicable for enrichment of generalists with traits other than NO reduction.  NO emissions from farmed soils are a major source of climate forcing. Here, denitrifying bacteria act as both source and sink for NO, determined by regulatory traits or the absence of genes coding for the enzymes producing or reducing NO. One approach to reducing emissions is to amend large numbers of NO-reducing bacteria (NRB) to soil. This was shown to be feasible by growing NRB to high densities in organic wastes and then applying them as fertilizers. The effect on NO emissions, however, was transient because the isolated NRBs were unsuited to soil. Here, we have developed an enrichment strategy selecting for organisms with generalist lifestyles, tolerant of rapid environmental changes. This was used to isolate robust NRBs that grow both in digestate and when amended to soils. This strategy opens an avenue for obtaining not just robust NRBs to reduce NO emissions, but any organism destined for application to complex environments.

Comprehensive ADM1 Extensions to Tackle Some Operational and Metabolic Aspects in Anaerobic Digestion.Modelling in anaerobic digestion will play a crucial role as a tool for smart monitoring and supervision of the process performance and stability. By far, the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) has been the most recognized and exploited model to represent this process. This study aims to propose simple extensions for the ADM1 model to tackle some overlooked operational and metabolic aspects. Extensions for the discontinuous feeding process, the reduction of the active working volume, the transport of the soluble compound from the bulk to the cell interior, and biomass acclimation are presented in this study. The model extensions are included by a change in the mass balance of the process in batch and continuous operation, the incorporation of a transfer equation governed by the gradient between the extra- and intra- cellular concentration, and a saturation-type function where the time has an explicit influence on the kinetic parameters, respectively. By adding minimal complexity to the existing ADM1, the incorporation of these phenomena may help to understand some underlying process issues that remain unexplained by the current model structure, broadening the scope of the model for control and monitoring industrial applications.

Glucosylceramide Changes Bacterial Metabolism and Increases Gram-Positive Bacteria through Tolerance to Secondary Bile Acids In Vitro.Glucosylceramide is present in many foods, such as crops and fermented foods. Most glucosylceramides are not degraded or absorbed in the small intestine and pass through the large intestine. Glucosylceramide exerts versatile effects on colon tumorigenesis, skin moisture, cholesterol metabolism and improvement of intestinal microbes in vivo. However, the mechanism of action has not yet been fully elucidated. To gain insight into the effect of glucosylceramide on intestinal microbes, glucosylceramide was anaerobically incubated with the dominant intestinal microbe, , and model intestinal microbes. The metabolites of the cultured broth supplemented with glucosylceramide were significantly different from those of broth not treated with glucosylceramide. The number of Gram-positive bacteria was significantly increased upon the addition of glucosylceramide compared to that in the control. Glucosylceramide endows intestinal microbes with tolerance to secondary bile acid. These results first demonstrated that glucosylceramide plays a role in the modification of intestinal microbes.

Exploration of machine learning algorithms for predicting the changes in abundance of antibiotic resistance genes in anaerobic digestion.The land application of digestate from anaerobic digestion (AD) is considered a significant route for transmitting antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) and mobile genetic elements (MGEs) to ecosystems. To date, efforts towards understanding complex non-linear interactions between AD operating parameters with ARG/MGE abundances rely on experimental investigations due to a lack of mechanistic models. Herein, three different machine learning (ML) algorithms, Random Forest (RF), eXtreme Gradient Boosting (XGBoost), and Artificial Neural Network (ANN), were compared for their predictive capacities in simulating ARG/MGE abundance changes during AD. The models were trained and cross-validated using experimental data collected from 33 published literature. The comparison of model performance using coefficients of determination (R) and root mean squared errors (RMSE) indicated that ANN was more reliable than RF and XGBoost. The mode of operation (batch/semi-continuous), co-digestion of food waste and sewage sludge, and residence time were identified as the three most critical features in predicting ARG/MGE abundance changes. Moreover, the trained ANN model could simulate non-linear interactions between operational parameters and ARG/MGE abundance changes that could be interpreted intuitively based on existing knowledge. Overall, this study demonstrates that machine learning can enable a reliable predictive model that can provide a holistic optimization tool for mitigating the ARG/MGE transmission potential of AD.

Biochar induced inhibitory effects on intracellular and extracellular antibiotic resistance genes in anaerobic digestion of swine manure.Distribution of intracellular (iARGs) and extracellular ARGs (eARGs) in manure anaerobic digestion (AD) process coupled with two types of biochar (BC and BP) were investigated. And the effects of biochar on the conjugation transfer of ARGs were explored by deciphering the interaction of biochar with bacterial stress responses, physiological metabolism and antibiotic resistances. Results showed that AD process could effectively remove all the detected eARGs with efficiency of 47.4-98.2%. The modified biochar (BP) with larger specific surface area (SSA) was propitious to decrease the absolute copy number of extracellular resistance genes. AD process could effectively remove iARGs by inhibiting the growth of host bacteria. The results of structural equation models (SEM) indicated that biochar put indirect influences on the fate of ARGs (λ = -0.23, P > 0.05). Analysis on oxidative stress levels, antioxidant capacity, DNA damage-induced response (SOS) response and energy generation process demonstrated that biochar induced the oxidative stress response of microorganisms and enhanced the antioxidant capacity of bacteria. The elevated antioxidant capacity negatively affected SOS response, amplified cell membrane damage and further weakened the energy generation process, resulted in the inhibition of horizontal transfer of ARGs.

Semi-solid state promotes the methane production during anaerobic co-digestion of chicken manure with corn straw comparison to wet and high-solid state.Total solid content (TS) is an important factor for biogas production during anaerobic digestion. In this study, we explored the influence of different TS (5% wet, 15% semi-solid and 25% solid state) on the relative cumulative methane production (RCMP) during anaerobic co-digestion of chicken manure with corn straw. Results showed that total ammonium nitrogen and free ammonia nitrogen concentration increased with the increase of TS. Ammonium nitrogen in treatments at 15% TS was 2.25-2.76 times as high as that at 5% TS, which was below 3 times. The highest chemical oxygen demand removal and RCMP were obtained in the treatment of 15% TS with a ratio of 2:1 chicken manure: corn straw (based on TS). The RCMP in the treatments of 15% TS were 3.63-4.59 times higher than that of 5% TS based on the volume of substrates. The abundance of Caldicoprobacter improving the degradation of corn straw was significantly positively correlated with the RCMP, and the average abundance of Caldicoprobacter at 15% TS was 8.33 and 7.02 times higher than that at 5% and 25% TS, respectively. Structural equation models analysis suggested that TS significantly impacted the RCMP by indirectly impacting free ammonia nitrogen and microbial abundance. These findings indicated semi-solid state (15% TS) decreased ammonia nitrogen releasing and improved the abundance of Caldicoprobacter, and increased RCMP during anaerobic co-digestion of chicken manure with corn straw.

Critical insights into anaerobic co-digestion of wheat straw with food waste and cattle manure: Synergistic effects on biogas yield and kinetic modeling.In this study, four batch assays were performed to ensure the synergic effects of co-digestion and find out the best inoculums to substrate ratio (ISR), carbon to nitrogen ratio (C:N), and total solid (TS) percentage in sequence. The co-digestion of three feedstocks had a 20% higher biogas yield (416 mL/gVS added) than mono-digestion with 21% volatile solids (VS) degradation. The ISR of 2 leads to the highest biogas yield (431 mL/gVS added) and VS removal (30.3%) over other ISRs (0.5, 1.0, 2.5) studied. The lower ISR (<2) tended to have lower pH due to insufficient anaerobes inside the digester. The C:N 35 (with ISR 2) yielded 17.4% higher biogas (443.5 mL/gVS added) than mono-digestion and was the highest among the C:N ratios studied with 36.6% VS removal. The VFA, alkalinity, and pH in C:N 35 assay were more stable than in other C:N assays. In the fourth batch assay, varying TS% (5, 7.5, 10, 12.5) were used with optimized ISR (2) and C:N (35). Higher TS% (10 and 12.5) had some lag phase but later achieved higher biogas production. The 12.5% TS assay achieved 80% higher biogas yield (679 mL/gVS added) over mono-digestion, i.e., highest among the TS% studied, with 48% VS removal. In conclusion, co-digestion of mixed feedstocks with ISR 2, C:N 35, and TS 12.5% could degrade almost half of the substrate available for biodegradation. Further biodegradation may require pretreatment of the recalcitrant WS. Modified Gompertz, first-order, transference, and logistic models were used for kinetic study and curve fitting of experimental data. For the optimized batch assays, the estimated specific rate constants were 0.08, 0.12, 0.083, and 0.084. The data fits well in all the models, with the coefficient of discrimination (R) ranging from 0.882 to 0.999.

Enriched sewage sludge from anaerobic pre-treatment in spurring valorization potential of black soldier fly larvae.The valorization of sewage sludge by black soldier fly larvae (BSFL) has gained attentions for sewage sludge management since the sludge can be reduced securely as well as larval biomass can be used for biorefineries application. Nevertheless, the BSFL growth was impeded while assimilating nutrition from sewage sludge due to the presence of extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) that had entrapped the essential nutrients inside. Accordingly, the pre-treatment of sewage sludge via anaerobic digestion at different pH was employed in this work to rupture the EPS structure and release more nutrients for larval growth. The results showed that larvae fed with raw sewage sludge had attained the lowest final larval weight (2.05 ± 0.38 mg/larva) as opposed to batches fed with pre-treated sewage sludges. This was because the soluble carbohydrate (more than 6.81 ± 1.31 mg of glucose/g sewage sludge) in EPS was released after anaerobic pre-treatment, facilitating larval assimilation for growth. Furthermore, it was observed that further increasing of pH for sewage sludge pre-treatment had led to lower final larval weight gained due to the inhibitory effect stemming from ammonia production at higher pH. The anaerobic pre-treatment of sewage sludge being executed at pH 3 for 8 days had achieved the highest final larval weight at 7.34 ± 0.97 mg/larva. The still low quality of sewage sludges after the pre-treatment also offered benefit, where high sewage sludge reduction and waste reduction index were recorded due to the necessity of BSFL to consume more sewage sludge in compensating the nutrients destitution in sludge. Lastly, the possibility of predicting final larval weight was successfully materialized via a statistical model derived from the multiple linear regression method. The derived model incorporated the interactive parameters of anaerobic pre-treated pH and durations at various combinations could predict the final larval weight.

Assessment of a full-scale solid-state anaerobic co-digestion: A multi-component substrate analysis by using ORWARE.Long-term sustainable biogas production requires different raw material alternatives, especially when reducing the most desirable organic substrate, food waste, which has been set as a goal in the 2030 Agenda. In Sweden, horse manure (HM) is generated in large quantities, and due to its physical and chemical characteristics, it has the potential to be used as a raw material to produce biogas through anaerobic digestion (AD). In order to investigate the challenges that HM digestion can impose in terms of methane yield and/or digestate quality, the modified ORganic WAste REsearch (ORWARE) AD model was applied. The aim was to study the effects of different substrates and combinations of these on the AD process during a full-scale solid-state (SS)-AD. In this sense, the model allows for the analysis of the digestion process of multicomponent substrates at the element level. The simulation results suggested that the replacement of green waste (GW) by HM with wood chips as bedding material gave the best improvement in terms of energy turnover; the liquid fraction of the digestate of this mixture of substrates presented the highest concentration in all the nutrients analyzed, specifically in total carbon-biological and phosphorus. The nutrient concentrations in the digestate from the aforementioned scenario are in line with the SPCR120 certification.

Interrelating EPS, soluble microbial products and metal solubility in a methanogenic consortium stressed by nickel and cobalt.The relationships between extracellular polymeric substances (EPS), soluble microbial product production, metal solubility, and methanogenic activity were investigated. The individual, and joint, toxic effects of nickel and cobalt on methanogenic consortia fed with glucose as model substrate were studied using biomethane potential assays. Cobalt was found to be less toxic to methanogens than nickel at each concentration tested, and the combined effects of Ni and Co on methane production in the bimetal experiment was higher than the sum of the effects of each metal alone. The protein content of EPS, and extracellular soluble protein fractions, decreased with increasing concentrations of total metals. Meanwhile, no significant change in response to metal stress was apparent for carbohydrate content of EPS or extracellular soluble carbohydrate. Decreasing protein content of EPS was accompanied by reduced methanogenic activity and an increase in the soluble metal fraction. The strong associations observed between these variables could be due to the critical role of EPS in protecting microbial cells against nickel and cobalt stress, possibly by capturing metal cations through their functional groups, thus reducing metal availability to the microbial cells in the methanogenic consortia underpinning the anaerobic digestion process.

Bacteroides Methanobrevibacter
Metabolic Synergy between Human Symbionts  and .Trophic interactions between microbes are postulated to determine whether a host microbiome is healthy or causes predisposition to disease. Two abundant taxa, the Gram-negative heterotrophic bacterium Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron and the methanogenic archaeon Methanobrevibacter smithii, are proposed to have a synergistic metabolic relationship. Both organisms play vital roles in human gut health; B. thetaiotaomicron assists the host by fermenting dietary polysaccharides, whereas M. smithii consumes end-stage fermentation products and is hypothesized to relieve feedback inhibition of upstream microbes such as B. thetaiotaomicron. To study their metabolic interactions, we defined and optimized a coculture system and used software testing techniques to analyze growth under a range of conditions representing the nutrient environment of the host. We verify that B. thetaiotaomicron fermentation products are sufficient for M. smithii growth and that accumulation of fermentation products alters secretion of metabolites by B. thetaiotaomicron to benefit M. smithii. Studies suggest that B. thetaiotaomicron metabolic efficiency is greater in the absence of fermentation products or in the presence of M. smithii. Under certain conditions, B. thetaiotaomicron and M. smithii form interspecies granules consistent with behavior observed for syntrophic partnerships between microbes in soil or sediment enrichments and anaerobic digesters. Furthermore, when vitamin B, hematin, and hydrogen gas are abundant, coculture growth is greater than the sum of growth observed for monocultures, suggesting that both organisms benefit from a synergistic mutual metabolic relationship.  The human gut functions through a complex system of interactions between the host human tissue and the microbes which inhabit it. These diverse interactions are difficult to model or examine under controlled laboratory conditions. We studied the interactions between two dominant human gut microbes, B. thetaiotaomicron and M. smithii, using a seven-component culturing approach that allows the systematic examination of the metabolic complexity of this binary microbial system. By combining high-throughput methods with machine learning techniques, we were able to investigate the interactions between two dominant genera of the gut microbiome in a wide variety of environmental conditions. Our approach can be broadly applied to studying microbial interactions and may be extended to evaluate and curate computational metabolic models. The software tools developed for this study are available as user-friendly tutorials in the Department of Energy KBase.

Development of a low-cost electrochemical sensor for monitoring components in wastewater treatment processes.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a complex biological process widely used to decompose various types of organic matter, as well as to produce some metabolites and biogas. Diverse microorganism groups cooperate in many intricate metabolic routes so that organic matter can be degraded. However, any imbalance on these routes can lead to process instability or even failure. Therefore, a proper monitoring system, as well as a good understanding of the process, are key steps to improve performance and stability. Several mathematical models have been developed to represent AD. Despite this, process monitoring is mostly conducted by analytical methods, whose equipment is either expensive or the analyses are time-consuming, which may be a hindrance to low-budget developments. The objective of this study was to develop a low-cost electrochemical sensor to monitor components in wastewater treatment plants. Hundreds of synthetically supplemented sugarcane vinasse and synthetic domestic sewage samples were characterised. The obtained signals were used to calibrate principal component regression, partial least square and artificial neural network estimation models. The predictable variables were chemical oxygen demand, volatile fatty acids, sodium bicarbonate, beef extract, and lipids, and their R ranged from 0.84 to 0.99, depending on the component.

Consideration of biological and inorganic additives in upgraded anaerobic digestion BioModel.This paper deals with the numerical simulation of biogas production in the anaerobic digestion process of organic waste. Special attention is focused on the modeling of the activities of biological and inorganic additives, which are used to enhance the process and reduce HS content in the biogas. For this purpose, an existing BioModel is upgraded with the modified Michaelis-Menten kinetics in order to model the enzymatic hydrolysis and with adequate modeling of physicochemical processes. The upgraded BioModel was calibrated with experimental data obtained from a full-scale biogas plant, used in combination with an active set optimization procedure; the relative agreement indices were 0.9376, 0.9419, 0.7957, and 0.7663 for biogas, CH, H, and HS flow rates, respectively. Statistical efficiency criteria differ up to 5% in model calibration and validation. The obtained results confirm the importance of additives modeling and the usefulness of the proposed model for industrial biogas plants' performance improvement.

Propionate-cultured sludge bioaugmentation to enhance methane production and micropollutant degradation in landfill leachate treatment.This research investigates the use of propionate-cultured sludge to enhance methane (CH) production and micropollutant biodegradation in biochemical methane potential (BMP) experiment treating landfill leachate. The experiments were carried out using non-acclimatized and acclimatized seed sludge with variable food to microorganism ratios of 1:1 and 1:2. Under the propionate-cultured sludge bioaugmentation, the concentrations of propionate-cultured sludge were varied between 10, 20, and 30 % (v/v). The acclimatized seed sludge exhibited high microbial abundance and diversity which promoted the CH production and micropollutant biodegradation. The modified Gompertz model indicated that the optimal condition was the acclimatized seed sludge with 30% (v/v) propionate-cultured sludge, achieving the lag time (λ), maximum CH production rate (R), and maximum CH potential yield (P) of 0.57 day, 17.35 NmL/h, and 140.58 NmL/g COD. The research novelty lies in the use of propionate-cultured sludge bioaugmentation in landfill leachate treatment to enhance CH production and micropollutant biodegradation.

Roadmap from Microbial Communities to Individuality Modeling for Anaerobic Digestion of Sewage Sludge.Biological models describing anaerobic digestion (AD) of sewage sludge have been widely applied to test various control and operation strategies. Anaerobic digestion model 1 (ADM1) provides a generic platform that includes the main processes of AD, excluding homoacetogenesis and the microbial structure. Homoacetogenic bacteria have been identified as important competitors for hydrogen consumption and acetate production. Although recent advances in meta-omics techniques have improved our characterization of AD microbial communities, conventional models treat functional groups as homogeneous and overlook the physiology and behavior of microbial individuality, limiting insights into mechanisms governing process performance. A novel microbial individuality model (MIM) that integrates kinetics, energetics, and agent-based modeling to describe a microbiome's behavior as heterogenic populations, including homoacetogenesis, was developed. The MIM was validated with two datasets from previous studies through daily biogas production, methane content, compound concentrations, and microbial relative abundance changes. The MIM identified the emergence of  at low concentrations of acetate. Moreover, this simulation supports experimental studies confirming that the overlooked homoacetogenesis is an important hydrogen sink in AD. Validated MIMs are expected to provide insights into syntrophic and competitive interactions among microbiomes in AD systems while testing different operational parameters in a virtual environment. The MIM offers a methodological framework to other biological treatment systems and their microbial community dynamics.

Methane production from peroxymonosulfate pretreated algae biomass: Insights into microbial mechanisms, microcystin detoxification and heavy metal partitioning behavior.This study investigated the methane production potential of algal biomass by anerobic digestion with the addition of peroxymonosulfate (PMS), the removal of microcystin were analyzed and discussed. The microcystin concentration in the collected algal sludge was 1.20 μg/L in the liquid phase and 1393 μg/g in the algal sludge before anaerobic fermentation. The microcystin concentration decreased to 0.20-0.35 μg/L in the liquid phase and 4.16-11.51 μg/g in the sludge phase after 60 days of digestion. The initial PMS dose and residue microcystin concentration could be simulated with a logarithmic decay model (R > 0.87). Anaerobic digestion could recover energy from algal source in the form of methane gas, which was not affected in the presence of microcystin, and the microcystin removal rate was >99%. Digestion decreased the total contents of Cd and Zn in the liquid phase and increased the total contents of Cr and Pb in the liquid phase. The microbial community and function prediction results indicated that the PMS0.1 system had the highest methane production, which was attributed to the high abundance of Mechanosaeta (40.52%). This study provides insights into microbial mechanisms, microcystin detoxification and the heavy metal partitioning behavior of the algal biomass during methane production.

Rheological evolution of straw-cattle manure (SCM) treated by dry anaerobic digestion in batch and in continuous pilot reactors.Knowledge of rheological evolution of biomass during dry anaerobic digestion (D-AD) is important in the engineering design, modeling, and operation of D-AD reactors. In this work, two methods of rheological analysis, the slump test and the shear-box, were used to measure the evolution of the yield stress, cohesion and friction angle of the straw-cattle manure (SCM) during the D-AD. Firstly, four 60 L batch leach-bed reactors (LBR) were started in parallel and stopped at different stages of the D-AD process on days 0, 10, 21 and 31. Secondly, a 500 L and 2 m length plug flow reactor (PFR) was operated with 40 days of solid retention time and samples were recovered at different positions. The solid degradation during D-AD process was monitored by analysis of the degradation of volatile solids, the fiber content and the Flash BMP. Similar degradation patterns of SCM and rheological evolution were observed in both reactors type. VS content decreased of 10.7% and 10.2% in 30 days in PFR and LBR respectively. VS degradation in both cases was well explained by hemicellulose and cellulose consuming in D-AD process. Considering the rheological analysis, the results showed that D-AD induced a reduction of the yield stress of 28.1 and 24.2% in 30 days in PFR and LBR respectively. Moreover, a similar evolution of cohesion and friction angle value for samples from both reactors was observed. This study demonstrates the close relationship between the state of degradation of the solid biomass and its rheological properties.

A comprehensive evaluation of process kinetics: A plant-wide approach for nutrient removal and biogas production.The present study investigated the deviations of operational parameters of a large-scale wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) from design basis through combining dedicated batch experiments with full-scale dynamic modeling results. The long-term process performance of a full-scale biological nutrient removal (BNR) plant equipped with anaerobic sludge digestion system was monitored to evaluate the process kinetics of both carbon and nutrient removal and anaerobic sludge digestion. In this respect, plant-specific characterization; chemical oxygen demand (COD) fractionation, batch kinetic studies and sludge settling velocity tests were performed together with plant-wide SUMO model simulation. Results showed that nitrification and anaerobic hydrolysis were found to be 30% and 70% lower than literature values, respectively. The anaerobic digestion test coupled with plant-wide model calibration showed that anaerobic hydrolysis was the bottleneck in biogas production. Correspondingly, performance of the anaerobic digestion in the full-scale plant was poor as low biogas production yields were observed. In addition, the degradation rate via anaerobic hydrolysis of primary sludge was found to be higher (∼2-2.5) compared to anaerobic hydrolysis of biological sludge. The results of this study provide insight into model-based experimental characterization as well as plant-wide modeling approach. Coupling model-based batch experiments with full-scale modeling enabled to reduce the number of kinetic parameters to be fine-tuned. Moreover, the information gathered from kinetic batch tests to the simulation platform yielded a satisfying prediction of long-term performance of the plant operation.

Multiple hydrolyses of rice straw by domesticated paddy soil microbes for methane production via liquid anaerobic digestion.The aim of this study was to investigate the hydrolysis of rice straw (RS) using domesticated paddy soil microbes (DPSMs) with swine wastewater (SW) as the nitrogen source and the multiple hydrolyses for CH production via liquid anaerobic digestion (L-AD). Three hydrolyses of RS with a 45% inoculation ratio (IR) under the conditions of a carbon/nitrogen ratio (C/N ratio) of 40, temperature of 37 °C, inoculum/substrate ratio (I/S ratio) of 2:1, and immersion depth of 6.0 cm were optimal, attaining maximum volatile fatty acids (VFAs) after five days, possibly owing to the synergistic effect of aerobic microbes (Firmicutes and Actinomycetes) and anaerobic microbes (Bacteroidetes and Acidobacteria). After three hydrolyses, the degradation rates of hemicellulose, cellulose, and lignin in RS were 88.45%, 83.19% and 70.09%, respectively. The accumulative CH production reached 462.11 mL/g VS after three hydrolyses, and its curve fitted well with the modified Gompertz model (R > 0.984).

Calcium ion can alleviate ammonia inhibition on anaerobic digestion via balanced-strengthening dehydrogenases and reinforcing protein-binding structure: Model evaluation and microbial characterization.Experimental investigation and model simulation was combined to identify the effect of metal ions on mitigating ammonia inhibition during anaerobic digestion. Five metal ions (Ca, Mg, Cu, Zn, Fe) were tested in reactors with 1 g-glucose/L/d and 5 g-N/L under fed batch operation. Ca addition was considered the optimal approach with a 25% increment in methane production via balanced-strengthening dehydrogenases and reinforcing protein-binding structure. Gene-sequencing results suggested 50% and 15% increment in acetotrophic-related and hydrogenotrophic-related dehydrogenases, respectively, after Ca addition. The Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 was modified by introducing lactate-related reactions, syntrophic acetate oxidation process, and kinetic equation of metal ions, with satisfactory predictions of methane and intermediates (R > 0.80). The lowest affinity constant K value was obtained with Ca supplement, indicating the highest conversion rate of substrates to methane. The model evaluation revealed the balanced ratio on the enzyme contribution of acetotrophic to hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis.

A critical review of process parameters influencing the fate of antibiotic resistance genes in the anaerobic digestion of organic waste.The overuse and inappropriate disposal of antibiotics raised severe public health risks worldwide. Specifically, the incomplete antibiotics metabolism in human and animal bodies contributes to the significant release of antibiotics into the natural ecosystems and the proliferation of antibiotic-resistant bacteria carrying antibiotic-resistant genes. Moreover, the organic feedstocks used for anaerobic digestion are often highly-rich in residual antibiotics and antibiotic-resistant genes. Hence, understanding their fate during anaerobic digestion has become a significant research focus recently. Previous studies demonstrated that various process parameters could considerably influence the propagation of the antibiotic-resistant genes during anaerobic digestion and their transmission via land application of digestate. This review article scrutinizes the influences of process parameters on antibiotic-resistant genes propagation in anaerobic digestion and the inherent fundamentals behind their effects. Based on the literature review, critical research gaps and challenges are summarized to guide the prospects for future studies.

Using multi-objective optimisation with ADM1 and measured data to improve the performance of an existing anaerobic digestion system.This paper presents a method to model and optimise the substrate feeding rate of an anaerobic digestion (AD) system. The method is demonstrated for a case study plant in Bangalore, India, using onsite kitchen waste to provide biogas for cooking. The AD system is modelled using Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) and a genetic algorithm (GA) is applied to control the substrate feeding rate in order to simultaneously minimise the volume of flared biogas, unmet gas demand and energy cost. Our results show that ADM1 can predict biogas yield from a continuously operated digester well with mean percentage errors between daily predicted and measured data values of only 5.7% for March 2017 and 17.8% for July 2017. When biogas flaring and unmet gas demand were minimised, the amount of biogas flared reduced from 886.62 m to 88.87 m in March and from 73.79 m to 68.49 m in July. When the energy cost was also considered within the objective function, the biogas flared reduced from 886.62 m to 281.27 m for March, but increased from 73.79 m to 180.11 m for July. The amount of flaring increased in July as the energy cost function increased biogas yield without considering surplus gas production beyond demand and storage capacity. As AD systems are often operated to maximise biogas production, these results highlight the need for multi-objective optimisation, particularly for off-grid AD systems.

Assessment of corn stover pretreated with shock and alkali using methane-arrested anaerobic digestion.Corn stover, an underutilized agricultural residue, is a promising lignocellulosic feedstock for producing biofuels. To fully utilize it, pretreatment is needed. Typically, pretreatments are rapidly assessed using extracellular enzymes that release sugars from cellulose and hemicellulose. In contrast, this study uses methane-arrested anaerobic digestion (MAAD) to assess pretreatments. Although time consuming, MAAD is a more accurate assessment technique when lignocellulose is employed in the carboxylate platform, a promising approach that utilizes nearly all biomass components. Using recommended pretreatment conditions identified from a previous study, three corn stover pretreatments were compared using MAAD: (1) shock-only, (2) NaOH-only, and (3) shock + NaOH. Air-dried sewage sludge was used as nutrient source. At 100 g/L initial substrate concentration, compared to untreated corn stover, shock-only decreased conversion (amount of biomass digested) by 14%, NaOH-only increased conversion by 82%, and shock + NaOH increased conversion by 104%. Using batch MAAD data, the continuum particle distribution model simulated four-stage countercurrent fermentation. At an industrial non-acid volatile solids (NAVS) concentration of 300 g/L , for both NaOH-only and shock + NaOH, the model predicts total carboxylic acid concentration of about 58 g/L and conversion of about 0.85 g NAVS /g NAVS at liquid retention time of 35 days and volatile solid loading rate of 4 g/(L ⋅day). At this long solid residence time, shock is not necessary; however, with short solid residence times, shock acts synergistically to aid NaOH pretreatment. Shock treatment offers a way to reduce pretreatment costs without sacrificing pretreatment efficacy.

Effects of pretreatment methods on biomethane production kinetics and microbial community by solid state anaerobic digestion of sugarcane trash.Solid state anaerobic digestion (SS-AD) of lignocellulose is effective in improving biomethane productivity but is limited by low biomass digestibility and lack of substrate-specific working microorganisms. In this study, the effects of different pretreatment methods on biomethane production by SS-AD of sugarcane trash were studied. The biomethane production, fitted to a modified Gompertz's model, predicted a maximum methane yield of 214.2 L/kg volatile solids (VS) and productivity of 6.9 L/kg VS/day from KOH-pretreated trash, respectively. Microbial community analysis showed that bacterial community was significantly associated with volatile acids and pretreatment types while archaeal community was significantly associated with methane yield. Microbial community dynamics was revealed in SS-AD. Main genera related to pretreatment method were identified and discussed. This study generated important information on SS-AD of lignocellulosic biomass pretreated by different methods, which is useful for developing bioaugmentation strategies to improve biomethane production by SS-AD.

Molecular biology and modeling analysis reveal functional roles of propionate to acetate ratios on microbial syntrophy and competition in electro-assisted anaerobic digestion.This study examined the significance of propionate to acetate (HPr/HAc) ratios on microbial syntrophy and competition in microbial electrolysis cell-assisted anaerobic digestion (MEC-AD). In addition to molecular biology and phylogenetic analysis, a numerical MEC-AD model was developed by modifying Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 to predict the effects of different HPr/HAc ratios (0.5, 1.5, 2.5, and 5). The HPr/HAc ratios of 0.5 and 1.5 maintained efficient syntrophy among electroactive bacteria, hydrogenotrophic methanogens, and homoacetogens, leading to higher methane yields. In contrast, higher HPr/HAc ratios of 2.5 and 5 were detrimental to methanogenesis. Both microbial community analysis and numerical modeling results suggested that higher propionate levels could promote the enrichment of H-utilizing acetogens, thereby triggering their competition with hydrogenotrophic methanogens. Moreover, protein fraction in extracellular polymeric substances and the relative expression of genes associated with extracellular electron transfer in both anode and cathode biofilms were markedly decreased with increasing HPr/HAc ratios, indicating partial inhibition of microbial electroactivity. Overall, these results illuminate deep insight into anaerobic syntrophy, contributing to the process kinetics and methane yields in MEC-AD systems. Furthermore, from a practical viewpoint, the results can also be helpful in effective control of MEC-AD operation without propionate accumulation.

Optimization of iron-enhanced anaerobic digestion of agro-wastes for biomethane production and phosphate release.In this study, the optimization of additives (polypyrrole magnetite nanocomposites (Ppy/FeO) and antagonists (humic acid and arsenic oxide)) for simultaneous recovery of biomethane and phosphate release from enhanced anaerobic co-digestion of okra waste and pig manure was investigated. The pre-determined dosages of additives from our previous studies were used for the batch anaerobic digestion at different ratios under mesophilic conditions based on the two level-four factors central composite design (CCD) response surface methodology (RSM). After the anaerobic digestion processes, the biomethane yields were recorded and the digestates were characterized to determine the quantity of soluble phosphates. Both the independent variables and the responses were used to model and optimize the biogas yield and phosphate release conditions. The result showed that the maximum biomethane yield and P release were respectively 502.743 mLCH4/gVS and 168.674 mg/L at the optimum conditions of Ppy/FeO (20.0014 mg/L), HA (5.0018 mg/L), As (1.448 mg/L) and co-digestion (25.0001%). The response models predicted biomethane yield and P release to be 528.635 mLCH4/gVS and 164.405 mg/L respectively. All the response models were highly significant with appropriate goodness of fit and had prediction differences of 4.90% and 2.597% respectively for both biomethane yield and P release. Although both the accelerants and antagonists had influences on the anaerobic digestion processes by achieving enhanced biomethane production and P release, the influence of long exposure of anaerobic digestion processes to these additives on both responses is recommended for further investigation.

Need of adjustment of methanogenic activities from solids digester sludge: Modelling dilution effects on micro-organisms biomass concentration.Anaerobic digestion is a widespread technology used for organic-based solid waste management. Specific methanogenic activity tests are simple and cost-effective tools for sludge characterization and system diagnosis. However, in solid digesters, substrate and organic inert material dilute micro-organisms, enlarging the activity tests and distorting experimental results. To correct this situation, correction factors, defined as the ratio of micro-organisms concentration to total volatile solids content, are considered. Due to the impossibility to have a quick measurement of the mass of micro-organisms in the digester content, correction factors were evaluated based on the simulation of a simple model. To verify the importance of the correction, hydrogenotrophic and acetoclastic methanogenic activities were studied, involving a stage for sludge acclimatization and subsequent processing in a continuous digester. This situation was compared with a wastewater up-flow anaerobic reactor where no dilution effects are presented. A correcting factor of 0.79 was obtained for the acclimatization period, whereas correcting factors of 0.25-0.30 were estimated for the two periods of the digester. Tendencies shown for raw activities differed from those observed after using correcting factors to adjust activity values for periods 1 and 2 of the digester; also, the gap between the up-flow anaerobic reactor (without solids dilution effects) and the digester activities was reduced from sixfold to double, evidencing the relevance of this correction tool. Additionally, correcting factors also enabled a reasonable calculation of the inoculum size during the design of the activity tests.

Gluten-free diet exposure prohibits pathobiont expansion and gluten sensitive enteropathy in B cell deficient JH-/- mice.In humans, celiac disease (CeD) is a T-cell-driven gluten-sensitive enteropathy (GSE) localized to the small bowel (duodenum). The presence of antibodies specific for gluten- and self-antigens are commonly used diagnostic biomarkers of CeD and are considered to play a role in GSE pathogenesis. Previously, we have described an apparent T-cell-mediated GSE in CD19-/- mice, which develop weak and abnormal B cell responses. Here, we expand on this observation and use a mouse model of complete B cell deficiency (JH-/- mice), to show that absence of a humoral immune response also promotes development of a GSE. Furthermore, 16S analysis of microbial communities in the small intestine demonstrates that a gluten-free diet suppresses the expansion of anaerobic bacteria in the small intestine and colonization of the small intestine by a specific pathobiont. Finally, we also observe that SI enteropathy in mice fed a gluten-rich diet is positively correlated with the abundance of several microbial peptidase genes, which supports that bacterial metabolism of gluten may be an important driver of GSE in our model. Collectively, results from our experiments indicate that JH-/- mice will be a useful resource to investigators seeking to empirically delineate the contribution of humoral immunity on GSE pathogenesis, and support the hypothesis that humoral immunity promotes tolerance to gluten.

in vitro
Bioaccessibility and intestinal cell uptake of carotenoids and chlorophylls differ in powdered spinach by the ingredient form as measured using  gastrointestinal digestion and anaerobic fecal fermentation models.Insights into food matrix factors impacting bioavailability of bioactive carotenoids and chlorophylls from fruits and vegetable ingredients are essential to understanding their ability to promote health. The stability and bioaccessibility of carotenoids and chlorophylls were assessed from dehydrated, spray-dried, freeze-dried and fresh spinach ingredient forms using  models simulating upper gastrointestinal (GI) digestion and lower GI anaerobic fecal fermentation. Intestinal transport of bioaccessible bioactives from both upper and lower GI compartments was assessed using the Caco-2 human intestinal cell model. Differences in carotenoid and chlorophyll contents were observed between ingredient forms and these influenced bioaccessibility. Lower carotenoid and chlorophyll contents in spray dried spinach resulted in the lowest total bioaccessible content among all spinach treatments (5.8 ± 0.2 μmoles per g DW carotenoid and chlorophyll). The total bioaccessible content was statistically similar between freeze-dried (12.5 ± 0.6 μmoles per g DW), dehydrated (12.5 ± 3.2 μmoles per g DW), and fresh spinach (14.2 ± 1.2 μmoles per g DW). Post anaerobic fermentation, cellular accumulation of carotenoids was higher (17.57-19.52  5.11-8.56%), while that of chlorophylls was lower (3.05-5.27  5.25-6.44%), compared to those observed following upper GI digestion. Collectively, these data suggest that spinach forms created by various drying technologies deliver similar levels of bioaccessible spinach bioactives and that the lower GI tract may serve as a site for significant absorption fostered by interactions with gut microbial communities that liberate additional bioactives from the spinach matrix.

Pyrolysis of anaerobic digested residues in the presence of catalyst-sorbent bifunctional material: Pyrolysis characteristics, kinetics and evolved gas analysis.We investigated the potential application of anaerobically digested residues for generating bioenergy in the presence of alkali bifunctional material, sodium zirconate (NaZrO, NZ) using a thermogravimetric analyzer connected to a mass spectrometer. Isoconversional kinetic models, compensation effect and master-plots method were used on data obtained under multiple heating rates (10, 15 and 20 °C min) to calculate the activation energy (E) and pre-exponential value (A) and reaction mechanism. The average E for blend samples C-DSW (NZ mixed with digested municipal solid waste (DSW)), and C-DSM (NZ mixed with digested swine manure (DSM)) were 172.24 and 171.63 kJ mol, which were much lower when compared to plain samples, DSW (202.51 kJ mol) and DSM (215.22 kJ mol). The total gas yields increased by 19.5 and 17.1% for NZ blended samples C-DSW and C-DSM, respectively. In addition, the hydrogen yields also increased by 79 and 44% for C-DSW and C-DSM, respectively.

Insights into high-solids anaerobic digestion of food waste enhanced by activated carbon via promoting direct interspecies electron transfer.High-solids anaerobic digestion (HS-AD) of food waste frequently confronted the acidification and failure under high organic loading rates (OLRs). Results indicated powdered activated carbon (PAC) addition significantly enhanced methane production and process stability than granular activated carbon, and columnar activated carbon at higher OLRs via accelerating the propionate consumption. Potential direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) partners, including various syntrophic oxidation bacteria and methanogens, were enriched with the activated carbon (AC) addition. Furthermore, DIET contribution to methane production was 35% by PAC, predicated by the modified Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 (ADM1). This study deeply elucidated the DIET mechanism and offered the potential foundations for the selection and applications of AC-based materials in HS-AD of food waste.

Methane liquid-gas phase distribution during anaerobic sludge digestion: A thermodynamic approach.Anaerobic digestion is certainly one of the options that can help solve the dilemma of energy demand, waste management and climate crisis mitigation mainly. Under ideal conditions, it is expected that all biomethane will be transferred from the liquid to the gaseous phase, ensuring maximum recovery. However, for concentrated wastewater or complex organic waste blends composed of functional groups with different sizes, the molecular interactions become important since the system is not only biphasic. Since the formation and transfer of a gas is related to the equilibrium condition, a thermodynamic approach could help to estimate the degree of variation of biomethane between the liquid and gaseous phases. Therefore, this investigation aimed to obtain the distribution between liquid and gaseous phases of the biomethane produced in the sewage sludge anaerobic digestion considering the substrate as a non-ideal solution. The nonlinear differential equations of the ADM1 were integrated with Aspen Plus® to verify the equilibrium conditions and the model was calibrated with data obtained through experiments conducted in a lab scale sequence batch reactor (SBR) fed with synthetic substrate (1500 mgCOD.L) and inoculated with flocculent sludge (500 mgSSV.L) from a full-scale UASB reactor. Considering the thermodynamic approach, the percentage of dissolved biomethane remains below the 2.97% percentage estimated by using the ADM1. It is possible to state that the principle of ideality is maintained in the system. On the other hand, CO phase distribution was considerably affected by the species defined in the equilibrium reactions. Therefore, it can be stated that Henry's Law simplification in ADM1 model is valid to represent the phenomenon investigated.

Development of a novel human intestinal model to elucidate the effect of anaerobic commensals on Escherichia coli infection.The gut microbiota plays a crucial role in protecting against enteric infection. However, the underlying mechanisms are largely unknown owing to a lack of suitable experimental models. Although most gut commensals are anaerobic, intestinal epithelial cells require oxygen for survival. In addition, most intestinal cell lines do not produce mucus, which provides a habitat for the microbiota. Here, we have developed a microaerobic, mucus-producing vertical diffusion chamber (VDC) model and determined the influence of Limosilactobacillus reuteri and Ruminococcus gnavus on enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) infection. Optimization of the culture medium enabled bacterial growth in the presence of mucus-producing T84/LS174T cells. Whereas L. reuteri diminished EPEC growth and adhesion to T84/LS174T and mucus-deficient T84 epithelia, R. gnavus only demonstrated a protective effect in the presence of LS174T cells. Reduced EPEC adherence was not associated with altered type III secretion pore formation. In addition, co-culture with L. reuteri and R. gnavus dampened EPEC-induced interleukin 8 secretion. The microaerobic mucin-producing VDC system will facilitate investigations into the mechanisms underpinning colonization resistance and aid the development of microbiota-based anti-infection strategies. This article has an associated First Person interview with the first author of the paper.

Bioaccessibility, gut microbial metabolism and intestinal transport of phenolics from 100% Concord grape juice and whole grapes are similar in a simulated digestion and fecal fermentation model.Phenolic rich 100% grape juice has been associated with many health benefits, but its place in dietary guidance is controversial relative to whole fruit. Direct comparisons of phenolic profiles and bioavailability between these food forms are needed. Phenolic bioaccessibility and metabolism from Concord (CG) and Niagara (NG) grapes and corresponding 100% juices were investigated using an  digestion coupled with anaerobic gut fermentation model. Intestinal transport of resulting bioaccessible phenolics and microbial metabolites was estimated using a Caco-2 cell model. Total bioaccessible phenolics from both upper and lower digestion were similar ( > 0.05) between NG (400.9 ± 26.3 μmol per 100 g) and NGJ (349.5 ± 8.3 μmol per 100 g) and significantly different ( < 0.05) between CG (417.2 ± 24.4 μmol per 100 g) and CGJ (294.3 ± 45.4 μmol per 100 g) total cellular transport of phenolics was similar ( > 0.05) between whole grapes (89.4 ± 5.3 μmol per 100 g for CG, and 71.8 ± 2.4 μmol per 100 g for NG) and 100% juices (88.0 ± 5.6 μmol per 100 g for CGJ, and 85.3 ± 9.4 μmol per 100 g for NGJ). Differences were observed between the location of phenolic metabolism, bioaccessibility and subsequent cellular transport of individual phenolics between grapes and juice matrices. Specifically, greater amounts of phenolics were transported from grape juices than whole grapes from the upper tract. However, cumulative bioaccessibility and transport from upper and lower GI digestion/fermentation together indicates that the absorbable phenolics from 100% grape juice is similar to that of whole grapes, suggesting that phenolic-mediated health benefits from consumption of whole fruit and juice may be similar.

Dynamic simulation and optimization of anaerobic digestion processes using MATLAB.Time series-based modeling provides a fundamental understanding of process fluctuations in an anaerobic digestion process. However, such models are scarce in literature. In this work, a dynamic model was developed based on modified Hill's model using MATLAB, which can predict biomethane production with time series. This model can predict the biomethane production for both batch and continuous process, across substrates and at diverse conditions such as total solids, loading rate, and days of operation. The deviation between literature and the developed model was less than ± 7.6%, which shows the accuracy and robustness of this model. Moreover, statistical analysis showed there was no significant difference between literature and simulation, verifying the null hypothesis. Finding a steady and optimized loading rate was necessary to an industrial perspective, which usually requires extensive experimental data. With the developed model, a stable and optimal methane yield generating loading rate could be identified at minimal input.

Calcium peroxide pre-treatment improved the anaerobic digestion of primary sludge and its co-digestion with waste activated sludge.Primary sludge (PS) and Waste activated sludge (WAS) as two main sludge streams in wastewater treatment plants are commonly anaerobically co-digested, which though may be differently affected by pretreatment. Previous work has found that calcium peroxide (CaO) pretreatment effectively enhanced anaerobic digestion of WAS. However, the feasibilities of this strategy on PS anaerobic digestion and co-digestion of WAS and PS are still unclear. Herein, this work provided new insights into these systems. Biomethane potential test demonstrated that CaO pretreatment at 0.02-0.26 g/g-volatile suspended solids (VSS) promoted anaerobic digestion of PS. Then the feasibility of CaO pretreatment for improving anaerobic co-digestion of PS and WAS mixture was confirmed, with the highest improvement in methane production, VSS destruction and sludge reduction being approximately 37.4%, 38.9% and 19.9%, achieved at 0.14 g/g-VSS of CaO. Process modelling analysis revealed that CaO pretreatment increased both degradable faction and actually degraded fraction in sludge mixture. The changes of sludge characteristics via pretreatment and key enzyme activity in sludge anaerobic co-digestion system demonstrated that increased CaO concentration resulted in increased soluble organics release from sludge mixture in the pretreatment stage and inhibited activity of coenzyme F responsible for methanogenesis. Further mechanism investigation disclosed that OH, O and OH were main contribution factors, and the order of their contributions were OH >O >OH. This work laid the theoretical foundation and provided guidance for the practical application of CaO pre-treatment technology.

A perspective on the combination of alkali pre-treatment with bioaugmentation to improve biogas production from lignocellulose biomass.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a bioprocess technology that integrates into circular economy systems, which produce renewable energy and biofertilizer whilst reducing greenhouse gas emissions. However, improvements in biogas production efficiency are needed in dealing with lignocellulosic biomass. The state-of-the-art of AD technology is discussed, with emphasis on feedstock digestibility and operational difficulty. Solutions to these challenges including for pre-treatment and bioaugmentation are reviewed. This article proposes an innovative integrated system combining alkali pre-treatment, temperature-phased AD and bioaugmentation techniques. The integrated system as modelled has a targeted potential to achieve a biodegradability index of 90% while increasing methane production by 47% compared to conventional AD. The methane productivity may also be improved by a target reduction in retention time from 30 to 20 days. This, if realized has the potential to lower energy production cost and the levelized cost of abatement to facilitate an increased resource of sustainable commercially viable biomethane.

Anaerobic co-digestion of coffee waste with other organic substrates: A mixture experimental design.The viability of the anaerobic co-digestion of coffee waste (CFW) with other organic waste (cow manure-CM, food waste-FW, anaerobic sludge-AS) was investigated through measurements of biogas generation of various mixtures of the above substrates. The experiments were designed following the principles of mixture experimental design. Four different mixtures were tested anaerobically at 37 °C in 500 mL and 1 L anaerobic vessels. AS was used in some mixtures as an inoculum. The results were fitted to two empirical models in which biogas generation was the dependent variable and the fractions of the components in the mixture were the independent variables. According to the empirical models, the co-digestion of CFW with AS appeared to have a positive (synergistic) effect, generating 201 mL g VS, which was 12% higher than the amount generated from the mono-digestion of AS (179 mL g VS). On the other hand, the co-digestion of CFW with CM and of CFW with FW had a negative (antagonistic) effect on biogas generation indicating that CFW inhibits biogas generation when mixed with CM and FW. Although the mono-digestion of CM resulted in an average of 149 mL g VS of biogas, when CM was combined with CFW in a mixture, biogas generation was highly reduced by 43.8%-85.1%, depending on the CFW content of the mixtures, which was 25% and 50%, respectively. When co-digesting CFW with FW, the biogas generated was 7.02 mL g VS that was obtained only from the FW in the mixture.

Integrated treatment of food waste with wastewater and sewage sludge: Energy and carbon footprint analysis with economic implications.Food waste (FW) is a primary constituent of solid waste and its adequate management is a global challenge. Instead of disposal in landfills, integrated treatment of FW with wastewater (WW) can diminish both environmental and economic burdens. Utilizing steady-state modelling and life cycle assessment techniques, this study investigated the prospects of FW integration with biological WW treatment in terms of WW treatment performance, net energy and carbon footprint and economics of the process. The explored scenarios include co-disposal and treatment with WW by using FW disposers and anaerobic co-digestion with sewage sludge in Hong Kong. Compared to the existing WW and FW treatment, the integrated scenarios significantly improved the energy balance (~83-126%), net greenhouse gas emissions (~90%), and economics of operation, with permissible impact on WW treatment performance. Therefore, utilizing the surplus capacity of the existing WW treatment facilities, these integrated scenarios are a promising solution for sustainable development.

Effect of low levels of oxytetracycline on anaerobic digestion of cattle manure.Cattle manure is rich in organic matter and nutrients, but it may also contain harmful substances such as residual antibiotics and other toxic compounds. Oxytetracycline (OTC) is a widely used veterinary antibiotic and its presence in manure can affect the subsequent anaerobic digestion process. This study evaluated the effect of OTC concentrations viz. 0.12, 0.3, 0.6, 1.2, 3, 6 and 12 mg L on batch mesophilic anaerobic digestion of cattle manure. The results showed that cumulative biogas yield decreased by 25, 29 and 55% at 3, 6 and 12 mg OTC L in contrast to control. Volatile solids removal was 39% for control which reduced to 13% in 12 mg L OTC spiked reactor. Effect on stability parameters was significant at OTC concentrations from 1.2 to 12 mg L. Two different kinetic models were used for biogas data validation and the modified Gompertz model best fitted to the experimental data.

Hydrochar and hydrochar co-compost from OFMSW digestate for soil application: 1. production and chemical characterization.The best available technique (BAT) for managing the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) is represented by anaerobic digestion (AD) and subsequent composting. This research explored a new industrial model in the framework of the C2Land international project, with the insertion of hydrothermal carbonization (HTC) as a post-treatment for OFMSW digestate. The reaction was set for 3 h at three different temperatures (180 ÷ 220 °C); the wet solid hydrochar obtained after filtration was then co-composted with greenery waste as a bulking agent and untreated OFMSW digestate in four different proportions in bench-scale bioreactors. The hydrochars and the hydrochar co-composts were suitable for agro-industrial applications, while the HTC liquors were tested in biochemical methane potential (BMP) for internal recirculation to AD. The scenarios proposed can be beneficial for plant enhancement and increased biogas production. This study reports results connected to the production phase. Mass balances confirmed that, during HTC, phosphorus precipitated into the solid products, organic nitrogen partially mineralized into ammonium, and oxidizable organic matter solubilized. The selected hydrochar obtained at 200 °C had mean (dry) solid, liquid, and gaseous yields equal to 77, 20, and 3 %, respectively. The dynamic respirometric index (DRI) confirmed that the reproduced BAT for the composting process was effective in producing high-quality hydrochar co-composts in terms of biological stability. The BMP tests on HTC liquors showed some inhibitory effects, suggesting the need for future studies with inoculum adaptation and co-digestion, to dilute toxic compounds and enhance biogas production. Part 2 of this study describes the agro-environmental properties of hydrochars and hydrochar co-composts, including the beneficial effect of composting on hydrochars phytotoxicity.

Consensus Prediction of Human Gut Microbiota-Mediated Metabolism Susceptibility for Small Molecules by Machine Learning, Structural Alerts, and Dietary Compounds-Based Average Similarity Methods.The human gut microbiota (HGM) colonizing human gastrointestinal tract (HGT) confers a repertoire of dynamic and unique metabolic capacities that are not possessed by the host and therefore is tentatively perceived as an alternative metabolic ″organ″ besides the liver in the host. Nevertheless, the significant contribution of HGM to the overall human metabolism is often overlooked in the modern drug discovery pipeline. Hence, a systematic evaluation of HGM-mediated drug metabolism is gradually important, and its computational prediction becomes increasingly necessary. In this work, a new data set containing both the HGM-mediated metabolism susceptible (HGMMS) and insusceptible (HGMMI) compounds (329 vs 320) was manually curated. Based on this data set, the first machine learning (ML) model, a new structural alerts (SA) model, and the K-nearest neighboring dietary compounds-based average similarity (AS) model were proposed to directly predict the HGM-mediated metabolism susceptibility for small molecules, and exhibit promising performance on three independent test sets. Finally, consensus prediction (ML/SA/AS) for DrugBank molecules revealed an intriguing phenomenon that a typical Michael acceptor ″α,β-unsaturated carbonyl group″ is a very common warhead for the design of covalent inhibitors and inclined to be metabolized by HGM in anaerobic HGT to generate the reduced metabolite without the reactive warhead, which could be a new concern to medicinal chemists. To the best of our knowledge, we gleaned the first HGMMS/HGMMI data set, developed the first HGMMS/HGMMI classification model, implemented a relatively comprehensive program based on ML/SA/AS approaches, and found a new phenomenon on the HGM-mediated deactivation of an extensively used warhead for covalent inhibitors.

Anaerobic co-digestion of cheese whey and septage: Effect of substrate and inoculum on biogas production.Cheese whey is an industrial waste generated from the cheese processing unit of the dairy industry and requires treatment before its disposal. The present study investigated the possibilities of improving the digestibility from anaerobic digestion of lipid rich dairy by-product, cheese whey using septage as the co-substrate with different inoculum. Biochemical methane potential assays were conducted under mesophilic temperature conditions and results were validated using Modified Gompertz Model. Two sets of BMP tests were done; to assess the individual and combined digestion abilities of septage in anaerobic co-digestion of whey and to assess the ability of 3 inoculum sources (cattle manure, sewage sludge, and acclimatized anaerobic sludge) in the co-digestion process. The results indicated that septage is an excellent co-substrate that has better adaptability with cheese whey and the optimum mix ratio was found as 40:60 (S: S). BMP tests were also conducted with inoculum at S/I ratio of 1 and statistical analysis was performed to study the synergistic effect of both co-digestion and inoculum. The tests revealed that the cattle manure resulted in the highest biogas production (342.22mL/gVS) at 60% whey fraction. Modified Gompertz model fitted the experimental data well and identified an increase in lag phase times when whey fraction is increased. Comparatively higher lag phase times ranging from 1.98 to 4.35 days were obtained for sewage sludge inoculated samples. The maximum methane production (P) was obtained at 60% whey fraction (369.63 ± 4.05mL/gVS) at a very short lag time of 0.76 ± 0.17days for cattle manure inoculated mixture.

Biochar and hydrochar in the context of anaerobic digestion for a circular approach: An overview.Biochar and hydrochar are carbonaceous materials with valuable applications. They can be synthesized from a wide range of organic wastes, including digestate. Digestate is the byproduct of anaerobic digestion (AD), which is performed for bioenergy (biogas) production from organic residues. Through a thermochemical process, such as pyrolysis, gasification, and hydrothermal carbonization - HTC, digestate can be converted into biochar or hydrochar. The addition of either biochar or hydrochar in AD has been reported to improve biochemical reactions and microbial growth, increasing the buffer capacity, and facilitating direct interspecies electrons transfer (DIET), resulting in higher methane (CH) yields. Both biochar and hydrochar can adsorb undesired compounds present in biogas, such as carbon dioxide (CO), hydrogen sulfide (HS), ammonia (NH), and even siloxanes. However, an integrated understanding of biochar and hydrochar produced from digestate through their return to the AD process, as additives or as adsorbents for biogas purification, is yet to be attained to close the material flow loop in a circular economy model. Therefore, this overview aimed at addressing the integration of biochar and hydrochar production from digestate, their utilization as additives and effects on AD, and their potential to adsorb biogas contaminants. This integration is supported by life cycle assessment (LCA) studies, showing positive results when combining AD and the aforementioned thermochemical processes, although more LCA is still necessary. Techno-economic assessment (TEA) studies of the processes considered are also presented, and despite an expanding market of biochar and hydrochar, further TEA is required to verify the profitability of the proposed integration, given the specificities of each process design. Overall, the synthesis of biochar and hydrochar from digestate can contribute to improving the AD process, establishing a cyclic process that is in agreement with the circular economy concept.

Modelling the effects of particle size pretreatment method on biogas yield of groundnut shells.Optimising biogas yields from anaerobic digestion of organic wastes is significant to maximum energy recovery in the biodigestion process and has become an important topic of interest. Substrate particle size is an important process parameter in biogas production, and it precedes other pretreatments methods for the majority of the lignocellulose materials. Optimisation of biogas yield using Response Surface Methodology (RSM) was done, and temperature, hydraulic retention time and particle size were considered variables to develop the predictive models. Pretreatment of groundnut shells was investigated using particle size reduction of mechanical pretreatment methods. After pretreatment, 30 samples were digested in a batch digester at mesophilic temperature. The experimental results showed that the temperature, hydraulic retention time and particle size had significant effects of interaction ( < 0.05). The optimum experimental and predicted yields are: 44.70 and 42.92 (lkgoDM) organic dry matter biogas yield, 20.80 and 19.09 (l/kgFM) fresh mass biogas yield, 24.00 and 22.68 (lCHoDM) organic dry methane yield and 12.30 and 15.59 (lCHFM) fresh mass methane yield, respectively. The  recorded for the four yield components were 0.6268, 0.5875, 0.6109 and 0.5547. These values seem to be lower and a sign of the average fit of the model. Biogas production from groundnut shells was significantly improved with statistical optimisation and the pretreatment method.

Microbial community structures and antibiotic biodegradation characteristics during anaerobic digestion of chicken manure containing residual enrofloxacin.To explore the interaction between the residual antibiotic in animal manure and biological treatment, the effect of enrofloxacin (ENR) on the anaerobic digestion of chicken manure, and biodegradation rate of ENR was studied under the condition of actual residual ENR content of 0, 8, 16 and 32 mg/kg·TS. The results showed that the addition of ENR increased the total biogas production, especially 8 mg/kg·TS promoted the anaerobic reaction obviously, and the corresponding cumulative biogas production was increased by 15.33%. However, in the presence of 32 mg/kg·TS, the biogas production rate was reduced and the peak period of biogas production was delayed. The results of enzyme activities determination and 16S rRNA sequencing showed that ENR had different effects on archaea and bacteria. The residual ENR could promote hydrolysis reactions in the anaerobic system, but could inhibit acetoclastic methanogens, and the relative abundance of  declined by 7.22‒12.41%. The first-order kinetic model showed that the half-life period of ENR in the anaerobic digestion system was 9.16‒10.83 days, and the biodegradation rate exceeded 80% after the treatment. This study can bring important information for the management of animal manure in the future.

Anaerobic digestate management, environmental impacts, and techno-economic challenges.Digestate is a nutrient-rich by-product from organic waste anaerobic digestion but can contribute to nutrient pollution without comprehensive management strategies. Some nutrient pollution impacts include harmful algal blooms, hypoxia, and eutrophication. This contribution explores current productive uses of digestate by analyzing its feedstocks, processing technologies, economics, product quality, impurities, incentive policies, and regulations. The analyzed studies found that feedstock, processing technology, and process operating conditions highly influence the digestate product characteristics. Also, incentive policies and regulations for managing organic waste by anaerobic digestion and producing digestate as a valuable product promote economic benefits. However, there are not many governmental and industry-led quality assurance certification systems for supporting commercializing digestate products. The sustainable and safe use of digestate in different applications needs further development of technologies and processes. Also, incentives for digestate use, quality regulation, and social awareness are essential to promote digestate product commercialization as part of the organic waste circular economy paradigm. Therefore, future studies about circular business models and standardized international regulations for digestate products are needed.

Microbial hydrogen economy alleviates colitis by reprogramming colonocyte metabolism and reinforcing intestinal barrier.With the rapid development and high therapeutic efficiency and biosafety of gas-involving theranostics, hydrogen medicine has been particularly outstanding because hydrogen gas (H), a microbial-derived gas, has potent anti-oxidative, anti-apoptotic, and anti-inflammatory activities in many disease models. Studies have suggested that H-enriched saline/water alleviates colitis in murine models; however, the underlying mechanism remains poorly understood. Despite evidence demonstrating the importance of the microbial hydrogen economy, which reflects the balance between H-producing (hydrogenogenic) and H-utilizing (hydrogenotrophic) microbes in maintaining colonic mucosal ecosystems, minimal efforts have been exerted to manipulate relevant H-microbe interactions for colonic health. Consistent with previous studies, we found that administration of hydrogen-rich saline (HS) ameliorated dextran sulfate sodium-induced acute colitis in a mouse model. Furthermore, we demonstrated that HS administration can increase the abundance of intestinal-specific short-chain fatty acid (SCFA)-producing bacteria and SCFA production, thereby activating the intracellular butyrate sensor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ signaling and decreasing the epithelial expression of , consequently promoting the recovery of the colonic anaerobic environment. Our results also indicated that HS administration ameliorated disrupted intestinal barrier functions by modulating specific mucosa-associated mucolytic bacteria, leading to substantial inhibition of opportunistic pathogenic  expansion as well as a significant increase in the expression of interepithelial tight junction proteins and a decrease in intestinal barrier permeability in mice with colitis. Exogenous H reprograms colonocyte metabolism by regulating the H-gut microbiota-SCFAs axis and strengthens the intestinal barrier by modulating specific mucosa-associated mucolytic bacteria, wherein improved microbial hydrogen economy alleviates colitis.

Estimation of kinetic constants in high-density polyethylene bead degradation using hydrolytic enzymes.Microplastic beads are an emerging contaminant that can cause serious environmental and public health problems. Potential bypass of microplastic beads from wastewater to sludge treatment systems is a key challenge in the conventional wastewater treatment process. Moreover, there are no systematic studies on microplastic bead degradation by hydrolytic enzymes that are rich in concentration within wastewater and sludge treatment processes (e.g., anaerobic digestion (AD)). In this study, lab-scale experiments were conducted to investigate the degradation of high-density polyethylene beads by hydrolytic enzymes (e.g., lipase) under various experimental conditions (e.g., temperature). In a 3-day batch experiment, protease was most effective in polyethylene bead degradation as 4.0% of the initial bead mass was removed at an enzyme concentration of 88 mg/L under thermophilic temperature (55 °C). It was also found that the increasing enzyme concentration and high temperature enhanced the polyethylene bead degradation. In a separate 7-day experiment with repeated doses of protease, 23.3% of the initial mass of beads was removed at thermophilic temperature, indicating that AD with a long retention time (e.g., 20 days) and heated temperature has a significant potential for polyethylene bead degradation. A mathematical model was developed and calibrated using the experimental results to estimate the kinetic constant of the high-density polyethylene bead reduction by an enzyme (k) and enzyme self-decay constant (k). The calibrated k ranged from 5.0 to 8.1× 10 L/mg/hr while k was 0.44-1.10 L/mg/hr. Using the calibrated model, degradation of polyethylene beads using a mixture of cellulase and protease was simulated, considering an interactive-decay reaction between the two enzymes. The calibrated model was used to simulate the polyethylene bead degradation in AD where 70-95% of the initial bead mass was removed at typical retention time under mesophilic digestion (37.5 °C). Based on the experimental and simulation results, it can be concluded that hydrolytic enzymes can be an efficient technology for large-scale high-density polyethylene bead removal applications.

Environmental sustainability of an integrate anaerobic digestion-composting treatment of food waste: Analysis of an Italian plant in the circular bioeconomy strategy.In light of the adoption of recent global policies and strategies for a more sustainable food waste management system and a greater control of environmental impacts, this study describes a circular bioeconomy plant model, currently operating in South Italy, for treatment and enhancement of organic fraction of municipal solid waste. The key basis for plant activity is dry anaerobic digestion of separately collected organic fraction of municipal solid waste (SC-OFMSW) followed by digestate composting process. Biomethane for use in the transport sector is obtained by biogas cleaning and upgrading, while high-quality compost for organic farming is produced by digestate composting. Plant activities are completed by the transformation of part of the produced waste into refuse derived fuel (RDF) to be allocated to waste-to-energy plants and the treatment of odour emissions which allows the recovery of ammonium sulphate as a fertilizer. A rooftop photovoltaic system supplies most of electric energy needed by the plant. For plant activities relative to 2020, carbon footprint was equal to -112 kg COeq. for Mg of organic waste, while depletion of fossil resources was estimated at -89.6 kg oil eq. Mg of waste. Primary energy demand of food waste treatment system was -2.66 GJ Mg of input waste. Replacement of natural gas with biomethane for transport sector provided the greatest improvement contribution for all the examined categories.

Towards monitoring biodegradation of starch-based bioplastic in anaerobic condition: Finding a proper kinetic model.Bioplastic biodegradation showed varying behavior during the process of biodegradation. The First-order and Gompertz models are the most prevalent models for monitoring biodegradation in an anaerobic digestion (AD) process, which do not suit adequately bioplastics fermentation modeling. This research aimed at studying the kinetics of methane production during AD of starch-based bioplastic by using a large library of non-linear regressions (NLRs) and an artificial neural network (ANN). Although 26 NLR models (25 were outlined in the AD literature + 1 modified by authors) have been analyzed, 9 of them were proper predictors for the whole AD process for methane production. In the end M9, which has been proposed by authors, was selected owing to the simplicity of regression as well as good statistical criteria. Moreover, MLP-ANN could outperform the NLR model and has been selected as the superior model that can define the kinetics of bioplastic AD.

Methane production potential of pulp mill sludges: microbial community and substrate constraints.Sludges from pulp and paper mills represent a major ecological and environmental cost, and anaerobic digestion represents a method of waste reduction and energy recovery for these mills. This study compared methane production potential and microbial communities across 11 primary- and biosludges from five pulp and paper mills using various mill processes. We measured methane production from sludges in anaerobic batch reactor experiments over 64 days. Sludges were incubated with and without added substrate to test for organic substrate limitation versus inhibition of methanogens. Initial microbial communities and changes to community composition were determined using Illumina MiSeq for metabarcoding of bacterial and archaeal 16S rRNA genes. Mean methane production potential varied greatly between sludges (0.002-79 mL CH4 g-1 TS). Among primary sludges, kraft mill sludge produced more methane than other mill types. For these other mills, biosludge produced more methane than primary sludge, which had evidence of methanogen inhibition. Microbial communities and diversity were influenced by the initial community composition, and high methane production was only seen in sludges with high diversity. A number of sludges innately produced substantial methane and may be targets for further modelling and larger scale testing of anaerobic digestion.

Assessment of different mechanical treatments for improving the anaerobic biodegradability of residual raspberry extrudate.Mechanical treatments can be simple and feasible methods for enhancing the anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic substrates. This work aims to relate the direct effect of five different mechanical treatments, i.e., variation in the size and number of particles, with the variations in the chemical composition and, subsequently, the effect over the anaerobic digestion of residual raspberry extrudate, which was used as a model substrate. A high variation in the number of particles and the particle size distribution was achieved depending on the mechanical treatment applied, reaching the highest number of particles for the treatments with knife mills and mortar (around 8000 particles per gram). The higher number of particles was related to higher solubilisation, including phenolic compounds and sugars. The combination of knife mills and mortar pretreatment, which presented the highest number of particles, resulted in a 66% more of polyphenols in comparison to the raw substrate. However, the presence of anthocyanins was higher in mechanical treatments with less effect. The enhancement of the anaerobic digestion was clearly related to the increment in the number of particles of small size after the mechanical treatments. The highest methane yield coefficient (236 ± 11 mL CH/g volatile solids) was achieved for the raspberry extrudate treated with knife mills.

Analysis of organic matter conversion behavior and kinetics during thermal hydrolysis of sludge and its anaerobic digestion performance.In thermal hydrolysis (TH) of waste activated sludge (WAS), the material transformation of a specific temperature heating for a set duration is generally examined. However, this study looked at the material changes of TH as the temperature rose (90-210 °C) and the kinetic derivation of soluble chemical oxygen demand (SCOD), protein, and carbohydrate using the Coats-Redfern model. It was found that the proportion of soluble protein and soluble carbohydrate in the organic components and their contents reached the maximum (17.39 and 8.10 g L respectively) at 180 °C. Differently, volatile fatty acid (VFA), amino acids, and ammonia nitrogen increased with the TH temperature and reached a maximum at 210 °C. The fitting equations of non-isothermal dynamics at the medium- and low-temperature stages (90-180 °C) at n = 1, 0.5, and 2 were studied. When n = 1, the activation energies of COD, protein, and carbohydrate were 33.32, 23.34, and 36.15 kJ mol, respectively. And the kinetic analysis results were in good agreement with the experimental results (the maximum rate of increase in protein and carbohydrate was at 135-150 °C and 150-180 °C, respectively). Moreover, the pattern of anaerobic digestion performance of WAS was comparable to the trend of protein and carbohydrate in TH, the highest cumulative methane production was 159.68 mL·gVS for the TH sludge at 180 °C. This study provided a theoretical foundation for the use of thermal hydrolysis in engineering.

Model-based mid-infrared spectroscopy for on-line monitoring of volatile fatty acids in the anaerobic digester.The performance of anaerobic digestion is significantly governed by the concentration of volatile fatty acids (VFAs). Though the titration and near-infrared spectroscopy have been used to measure the VFAs in the digester, there is still lack of the establishment of on-line monitoring of VFAs in practical application. An effective quantification method based on mid-infrared (MIR) spectroscopy was developed, and used to measure the concentrations of VFAs in the anaerobic bioreactor nondestructively in parallel. The wavelet denoising (WD) spectra were used as the spectral preprocessing option. Compared with other pretreatment methods, the established calibration model built by WD spectra showed satisfactory results. Further, the model was verified using high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and predictions were made using real reactor effluent samples. Based on this theoretical work, a set of equipment for the in-situ online monitoring of VFAs was designed, which has high feasibility and effectively solves the problems with the current VFAs online monitoring process. These results provide a new solution for on-line monitoring of the anaerobic digestion, and have great potential for practical application.

Oriented conversion of agricultural bio-waste to value-added products - A schematic review towards key nutrient circulation.Agriculture bio-waste is one of the largest sectors for nutrient circulation and resource recovery. This review intends to summarize the possible scheme through coupling chemical conversion of crop straws to biochar and biological conversion of livestock waste to value-added products thus reaching key nutrient circulation. Chemical conversion of crop straws to biochar was reviewed through summarizing the preparation methods and functional modification of biochar. Then, high-solid two-phase anaerobic conversion of agriculture bio-waste to value-added products and improved performance of bio-conversion through byproduct gases reuse and biochar supplementation were reviewed. Finally, high quality compost production through amendment of biochar and residual digestate was proposed with analysis of reduced nitrogen emission and carbon balance. The biological mechanism of synergistic regulation of carbon and nitrogen loss during bio-conversion with biochar was also reviewed. This will provide a model for synergistic conversion of agricultural wastes to value added products pursuing key nutrient circulation.

4
[Bmim]FeCl mediated inhibition and toxicity during anaerobic digestion: Dose-response kinetics, biochar-dependent detoxification and microbial resistance.[Bmim]FeCl, or 1‑butyl‑3-methylimidazolium tetrachloroferrate, is a typical ionic liquid (IL). Its recyclable, magnetic, multicomponent, and solvent-free nature makes it a particularly attractive ionic liquid for use in industrial processes. Despite its widespread use, the potential hazards that [Bmim]FeCl might pose to the environment, including productive microorganisms, have not been explored. In this study, the dose-response of [Bmim]FeCl in anaerobic digestion (AD) was investigated to assess the potential toxification and biochar-dependent detoxification in microbial communities, including enzymatic activity and molecule docking dynamics. Our results showed that methane production (31.52 mL/gVS) was sharply inhibited following [Bmim]FeCl treatment. Moreover, increasing the dosage of [Bmim]FeCl caused more dissolved organic matter (DOM) to be generated. Interestingly, 0.4 g/L of [Bmim]FeCl could stimulate the high activity of microbial hydrolase and ATPase. However, a higher concentration of 2.65 g/L prevented these enzymatic processes from continuing. At the cellular level, higher concentration of [Bmim]FeCl (>0.4 g/L) increased malondialdehyde (MDA) levels, leading to a higher cell lethal rate and weakening of the secondary structures of protein (especially, the amide I region). At the molecular level, the competitive H-bonding in the active sites caused low activity and consummated more energy. At the community level, structural equation modeling (SEM) revealed that [Bmim]FeCl and biochar were the main drivers for microbial community succession. For instance, high [Bmim]FeCl (8 g/L) benefited the growth of Clostridium sensu_stricto (from ≤1% to 27%). It is worth mentioning that biochar reversed the inhibition with high α-diversity, which caused a resurgence in the activity of previously inhibited ATPase and hydrolase. H-trophic methanogens (Methanolinea and Methaofastidisoum) were sensitive to [Bmim]FeCl and decreased linearly while acetoclastic methanogens (Methanosaeta) were unchanged. These findings were consistent with the short-term activity tests and further verified by functional analysis.

Clostridioides difficile
strain-dependent and strain-independent adaptations to a microaerobic environment.(formerly ) colonizes the gastrointestinal tract following disruption of the microbiota and can initiate a spectrum of clinical manifestations ranging from asymptomatic to life-threatening colitis. Following antibiotic treatment, luminal oxygen concentrations increase, exposing gut microbes to potentially toxic reactive oxygen species. Though typically regarded as a strict anaerobe,  can grow at low oxygen concentrations. How this bacterium adapts to a microaerobic environment and whether those responses to oxygen are conserved amongst strains is not entirely understood. Here, two  strains (630 and CD196) were cultured in 1.5% oxygen and the transcriptional response to long-term oxygen exposure was evaluated via RNA-sequencing. During growth in a microaerobic environment, several genes predicted to protect against oxidative stress were upregulated, including those for rubrerythrins and rubredoxins. Transcription of genes involved in metal homeostasis was also positively correlated with increased oxygen levels and these genes were amongst the most differentially transcribed. To directly compare the transcriptional landscape between  strains, a 'consensus-genome' was generated. On the basis of the identified conserved genes, basal transcriptional differences as well as variations in the response to oxygen were evaluated. While several responses were similar between the strains, there were significant differences in the abundance of transcripts involved in amino acid and carbohydrate metabolism. Furthermore, intracellular metal concentrations significantly varied both in an oxygen-dependent and oxygen-independent manner. Overall, these results indicate that  adapts to grow in a low oxygen environment through transcriptional changes, though the specific strategy employed varies between strains.

Reactive oxygen species limit intestinal mucosa-bacteria homeostasis in vitro.Interactions between epithelial and immune cells with the gut microbiota have wide-ranging effects on many aspects of human health. Therefore, there is value in developing in vitro models capable of performing highly controlled studies of such interactions. However, several critical factors that enable long term homeostasis between bacterial and mammalian cultures have yet to be established. In this study, we explored a model consisting of epithelial and immune cells, as well as four different bacterial species (Bacteroides fragilis KLE1958, Escherichia coli MG1655, Lactobacillus rhamnosus KLE2101, or Ruminococcus gnavus KLE1940), over a 50 hour culture period. Interestingly, both obligate and facultative anaerobes grew to similar extents in aerobic culture environments during the co-culture period, likely due to measured microaerobic oxygen levels near the apical surface of the epithelia. It was demonstrated that bacteria elicited reactive oxygen species (ROS) production, and that the resulting oxidative damage heavily contributed to observed epithelial barrier damage in these static cultures. Introduction of a ROS scavenger significantly mitigated oxidative damage, improving cell monolayer integrity and reducing lipid peroxidation, although not to control (bacteria-free culture) levels. These results indicate that monitoring and mitigating ROS accumulation and oxidative damage can enable longer term bacteria-intestinal epithelial cultures, while also highlighting the significance of additional factors that impact homeostasis in mammalian cell-bacteria systems.

Elucidating the production and inhibition of melanoidins products on anaerobic digestion after thermal-alkaline pretreatment.The refractory organics released from waste activated sludge (WAS) are unwanted produced in thermal-alkaline pretreatment, which are not well documented. In this study, we refer to them as melanoidins products (MPs) with characteristics of high molecular weight and inhibition to microbes. The results showed that these MPs from thermal-alkaline (80 °C and pH 10) pretreatment of WAS were identified with a broad molecular weight (>1000 Da). Dark-colored MPs were further verified from glucose and tryptophan as the model components, with values of UV280 and UV420 increasing. The produced MPs with a molecular weight of 1220, 6835, and even 21,200,000 Da were confirmed by SEC-HPLC. Unexpectedly, MPs were found to be electroactive with higher redox peak values than that of humic acids, which were almost not degraded by anaerobes as revealed by SEC-HPLC and 3D-EEM spectra. For the first time, the results demonstrated that MPs delayed volatile fatty acids production and reduced the methane yield (22-26% lower), which was likely attributed to the toxicity and/or electrons competition with anaerobes such as Methanosaeta. Thus, it is clear that MPs negatively impact anaerobic digestion after thermal-alkaline pretreatment, which shall be re-evaluated to minimize MPs when producing biochemicals from WAS.

Application of machine learning in anaerobic digestion: Perspectives and challenges.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is widely adopted for remediating diverse organic wastes with simultaneous production of renewable energy and nutrient-rich digestate. AD process, however, suffers from instability, thereby adversely affecting biogas production. There have been significant efforts in developing strategies to control the AD process to maintain process stability and predict AD performance. Among these strategies, machine learning (ML) has gained significant interest in recent years in AD process optimization, prediction of uncertain parameters, detection of perturbations, and real-time monitoring. ML uses inductive inference to generalize correlations between input and output data, subsequently used to make informed decisions in new circumstances. This review aims to critically examine ML as applied to the AD process and provides an in-depth assessment of important algorithms (ANN, ANFIS, SVM, RF, GA, and PSO) and their applications in AD modeling. The review also outlines some challenges and perspectives of ML, and highlights future research directions.

Probabilistic techno-economic assessment of anaerobic digestion predicts economic benefits to smallholder farmers with quantifiable certainty.Anaerobic digestion (AD) technology holds numerous potential benefits for farmers, however, challenges persist in terms of implementation costs and sustainability in developing countries. This paper presents a probabilistic techno-economic assessment tool for AD. A clear distinction is made between direct financial feasibility and wider (socio) economic feasibility. The tool identifies the technical- and economic factors influencing the returns of a particular AD process as well as the sensitivity of model predictions to variations in the value of the identified factors using a Monte Carlo approach. The tool is applied to assess the feasibility of a smallholder farm-based AD installation under a variety of substrates and operating conditions as an illustrative case study, where on-going flows of costs and benefits were considered over a 15-year period and discounted at a rate of 8%. The results of the case study revealed that the installation of a 10 m smallholder farm-based anaerobic digester are likely to be financially and economically viable with a financial benefit-cost ratio of 1.30-1.38 and an economic benefit-cost ratio ranged from 5.49 to 6.01. Risk assessment results confirmed the strong economic feasibility of a smallholder farm-based AD implementation: under the most conservative cost estimates, there is a 73% probability of achieving a financial benefit-cost ratio > 1, while there is a 96.6% probability of achieving an economic benefit-cost ratio > 1. The case study demonstrated the utility of probabilistic techno-economic assessments for informed decision making, a tool which can be readily generalized to other settings.

Role of TLR5 in the Translocation and Dissemination of Commensal Bacteria in the Intestine after Traumatic Hemorrhagic Shock.Enterogenous infection is a major cause of death during traumatic hemorrhagic shock (THS). It has been reported that Toll-like receptor 5 (TLR5) plays an integral role in regulating mucosal immunity and intestinal homeostasis of the microbiota. However, the roles played by TLR5 on intestinal barrier maintenance and commensal bacterial translocation post-THS are poorly understood. In this research, we established THS models in wild-type (WT) and  (genetically deficient in TLR5 expression) mice. We found that THS promoted bacterial translocation, while TLR5 deficiency played a protective role in preventing commensal bacteria dissemination after THS. Furthermore, intestinal microbiota analysis uncovered that TLR5 deficiency enhanced the mucosal biological barrier by decreasing RegIII-mediated bactericidal activity against G anaerobic bacteria. We then sorted small intestinal TLR5 lamina propria dendritic cells (LPDCs) and analyzed T1 differentiation in the intestinal lamina propria and a coculture system consisting of LPDCs and naïve T cells. Although TLR5 deficiency attenuated the regulation of T1 polarization by LPDCs, it conferred stability to the cells during THS. Moreover, retinoic acid (RA) released from TLR5 LPDCs could play a key role in modulating T1 polarization. We also found that gavage administration of RA alleviated bacterial translocation in THS-treated WT mice. In summary, we documented that TLR5 signaling plays a pivotal role in regulating RegIII-induced killing of G anaerobic bacteria, and LPDCs mediated T1 differentiation via RA. These processes prevent intestinal bacterial translocation and enterogenous infection after THS, suggesting that therapeutically targeting LPDCs or gut microbiota can interfere with bacterial translocation after THS.

Deterministic processes drive the microbial assembly during the recovery of an anaerobic digester after a severe ammonia shock.Anaerobic digestion allows to produce sustainable energy but the microbial community involved in this process is highly sensitive to perturbations. In this study, a longitudinal experiment was performed in two sets of triplicate bioreactors to evaluate the influence of ammonia addition on AD microbiome and its recovery. Zeolite was added in three reactors to mitigate the inhibition. Microbial dynamics were monitored with 16S rRNA sequencing at 15 time points. Dominant methanogenic pathways were determined with gas isotopic signature analysis. Zeolite addition did not enable to reduce ammonia inhibition or improve the process under the conditions tested. In all the bioreactors, ammonia inhibition sharply decreased the methane production but the process could restart thanks to the increase of hydrogenotrophic archaea and syntrophic bacteria. Interestingly, similar behaviour was observed in the six reactors. Neutral modelling and null model were used and showed that a deterministic process governed the recovery of AD microbiome after failure.

Exergy analysis and optimization of bio-methane production from corn stalk pretreated by compound bacteria based on genetic algorithm.An exergy equilibrium model was established to obtain the exergy efficiency under different conditions of compound bacteria pretreatment and anaerobic digestion (AD) of corn stalk. The Genetic Algorithm (GA) was applied to optimize the exergy efficiency of the combination process of the pretreatment and AD. The maximum exergy efficiency with the GA was 19.04%, corresponding to the optimal pretreatment parameters: pretreatment temperature 33.34℃, stalk particle size 0.50 mm, ventilation rate 0.88 L/min, pretreatment time 169.03 h. The optimal AD parameters were: digestion temperature 38.08℃ and stirring rate 48.04 r/min. The validation experiment exergy efficiency reached to 19.25%, which was 24.37% higher as compared to that of the non-pretreatment process. Under these optimal conditions, the energy consumption of the compound bacteria pretreatment and the time of the bio-methane production process were effectively reduced.

Resource potential and global warming potential of fruit and vegetable waste in China based on different treatment strategies.Fruit and vegetable waste (FVW) contains rich resources that can be recovered by methods such as incineration, anaerobic digestion to generate heat energy, biogas, and preservation by ensiling. However, a horizontal comparison of the resource potential and environmental impact of different recycling methods employed for FVW has not been conducted. This study quantifies and computes the recycling potential and global warming potential (GWP) of anaerobic digestion, ensiling, and incineration of the FVW generated during primary production in China. First, a gray model was employed to estimate the FVW output in 2030, based on the FVW produced between 2002 and 2017. Next, the resource potential and GWP of anaerobic digestion, incineration, and ensiling were evaluated. Finally, an optimization method was utilized to analyze possible strategies of FVW recycling in 2030. Results indicate that FVW output in China is expected to increase to 170 Mt by 2030, highlighting the need for efficient treatment options. Further, the resource potential and GWP of different waste treatment strategies were notably different. The recycling potential of ensiling was the highest at 1950 MJ/t; while the GWP of anaerobic digestion was the lowest at -31 kg CO2eq. An optimization analysis suggested that the optimal target of 100% would be attained if all FVW is ensiled in 2030. The study provides a basis for informed technical decision-making related to FVW recycling options in the future.

Optimization of Biomethane Production via Fermentation of Chicken Manure Using Marine Sediment: A Modeling Approach Using Response Surface Methodology.In this study, marine sediment (MS) was successfully used as a source of methanogenic bacteria for the anaerobic digestion (AD) of chicken manure (CM). Using MS showed high production in liquid and semi-solid conditions. Even in solid conditions, 169.3 mL/g volatile solids of chicken manure (VS-CM) was produced, despite the accumulation of ammonia (4.2 g NH-N/kg CM). To the best of our knowledge, this is the highest methane production from CM alone, without pretreatment, in solid conditions (20%). Comparing MS to Ozouh sludge (excess activated sewage sludge) (OS), using OS under semi-solid conditions resulted in higher methane production, while using MS resulted in more ammonia tolerance (301 mL/gVS-CM at 8.58 g NH-N/kg). Production optimization was carried out via a response surface methodology (RDM) model involving four independent variables (inoculum ratio, total solid content, NaCl concentration, and incubation time). Optimized methane production (324.36 mL/gVS-CM) was at a CM:MS ratio of 1:2.5 with no NaCl supplementation, 10% total solid content, and an incubation time of 45 days.

Unveiling the distinctive role of titanium dioxide nanoparticles in aerobic sludge digestion.Aerobic digestion is considered to be a common process for the stabilization of waste activated sludge (WAS) in the small-sized wastewater treatment systems, while the broad application of titanium dioxide nanoparticles (TiO NPs) results in their unavoidable existence in WAS aerobic digestion, with its role in aerobic sludge digestion being never documented. This study set up a series of aerobic sludge digesters to evaluate the previously unknown role of TiO NPs on the performance of the digesters. The volatile solids (VS) degradation percentage increased from 21.9 ± 0.6% to 26.9 ± 0.1% - 30.0 ± 0.3% with the different contents of TiO NPs (0, 1, 20 and 50 mg/L). Similarly, the total inorganic nitrogen production increased from 23.1 ± 0.3 to 31.0 ± 0.1 mg N/g VS with the rising TiO NPs concentrations from 0 to 50 mg/L. The microbial analysis suggested that TiO NPs contributed to the accumulation of specific microbes correlated with the degradation of organic substances and the conversion of nitrogen compounds. Model-based analysis showed the higher biodegradability and hydrolysis rate of sludge with TiO NPs. Further mechanistic studies indicated that the enhancement of WAS solubilization and the degradation of recalcitrant substances (e.g., humic acid and cellulose) contributed to the better performance of experimental aerobic digesters, which was confirmed by the fourier transformation infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) indicating the converting of these materials into biodegradable substrates for digestion with TiO NPs. It could be inferred from this investigation that aerobic digestion rather than anaerobic digestion would be a more suitable treatment method for sludge containing TiO NPs.

Electron bifurcation reactions in dark fermentation: An overview for better understanding and improvement.Electron bifurcation (EB) is the most recently found mode of energy conservation, which involves both exergonic and endergonic electron transfer reactions to minimize energy loss. Several works have been devoted on EB reactions (EBRs) in anaerobic digestion but limited in dark fermentative hydrogen production (DF). Two main electron carriers in DF are ferredoxin (Fd) and reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH), complicatedly involved in EB. Here, i) the importance of EB involvement in DF, ii) all EBRs possible to present in DF, as well as iii) the limitation of previous studies that tried incorporating any of EBRs in DF metabolic model, were highlighted. In addition, the concept of using metagenomic analysis for estimating the share of each EB reaction in the metabolic model, was proposed. This review is expected to initiate a new wave for studying EB, as a tool for explaining and predicting DF products.

A review on anaerobic digestion with focus on the role of biomass co-digestion, modelling and optimisation on biogas production and enhancement.The status, recent trends and future perspectives in modelling and optimisation of anaerobic co-digestion is investigated. Areas that can be focused on and those which need further research towards enhancing biogas production are pointed out. Co-digestion, modelling and optimisation of anaerobic digestion as well as techno-economic aspects are reviewed in this paper. It was noted that co-digestion requires more research into a variety of bio-resources and their specific blend proportions. Modelling and optimisation of co-digestion with substrate seasonal fluctuations has not been addressed in previous studies. Controlling key process factors including temperature, pH, and carbon to nitrogen ratio is critical in improving biogas yield. Biogas hybridisation is yet to be explored in depth. The majority of researches are focused on mono-digestion, feedstock co-digestion, modelling, and optimisation of anaerobic digestion needs significant further investigations. A multi-objective approach taking all technical and economic parameters in the modelling and optimization is essential.

Synergistic Effects of Magnetic Nanomaterials on Post-Digestate for Biogas Production.Digestate is characterized by high water content, and in the water and wastewater treatment settings, necessitates both large storage capacities and a high cost of disposal. By seeding digestate with four magnetic nanoparticles (MNPs), this study aimed to recover biogas and boost its methane potential anaerobically. This was carried out via biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests with five 1 L bioreactors, with a working volume of 80% and 20% head space. These were operated under anaerobic conditions at a temperature 40 °C for a 30 d incubation period. The SEM/EDX results revealed that the morphological surface area of the digestate with the MNPs increased as compared to its raw state. Comparatively, the degree of degradation of the bioreactors with MNPs resulted in over 75% decontamination (COD, color, and turbidity) as compared to the control system result of 60% without MNPs. The highest biogas production (400 mL/day) and methane yield (100% CH) was attained with 2 g of FeO-TiO MNPs as compared to the control biogas production (350 mL/day) and methane yield (65% CH). Economically, the highest energy balance achieved was estimated as 320.49 ZAR/kWh, or 22.89 USD/kWh in annual energy savings for this same system. These findings demonstrate that digestate seeded with MNPs has great potential to improve decontamination efficiency, biogas production and circular economy in wastewater management.

A Distinct, Flocculent, Acidogenic Microbial Community Accompanies Methanogenic Granules in Anaerobic Digesters.The formation of dense, well-settling methanogenic granules is essential for the operation of high-rate, up-flow anaerobic bioreactors used for wastewater treatment. Granule formation (granulation) mechanisms have been previously proposed, but an ecological understanding of granule formation is still lacking. Additionally, much of the current research on granulation only examines the start-up phase of bioreactor operation, rather than monitoring the fate of established granules and how new granules emerge over time. This paper, therefore, attempts to provide an insight into the microbial ecology of granule formation outside the start-up phase of bioreactor operation and develop an ecological granulation model. The microbial communities of granules actively undergoing growth, breakage, and reformation were examined, and an ecological granulation model was proposed. A distinct pregranular microbial community, with a high proportion of acidogenic organisms, such as the , was identified and suggested to have a role in initiating granulation by providing simpler substrates for the methanogenic and syntrophic communities which developed during granule growth. After initial granule formation, deterministic influences on microbial community assembly increased with granule size and indicated that microbial community succession was influenced by granule growth, leading to the formation of a stepwise ecological model for granulation.  Complex microbial communities in engineered environments can aggregate to form surface-attached biofilms. Others form suspended biofilms, such as methanogenic granules. The formation of dense, methanogenic granules underpins the performance of high-rate, anaerobic bioreactors in industrial wastewater treatment. Granule formation (granulation) has been well studied from a physico-chemical perspective, but the ecological basis is poorly understood. We identified a distinct, flocculent, microbial community, which was present alongside granules, comprising primary consumers likely key in providing simpler substrates to granules. This flocculent community is understudied in anaerobic digestion and may initiate, or perpetuate, granule formation. We propose that it may be possible to influence bioreactor performance (e.g., to regulate volatile fatty acid concentrations) by manipulating this community. The patterns of microbial community diversity and assembly revealed by the study indicate that cycles of granule growth and breakage lead to overall diversification of the bioreactor meta-community, with implications for bioreactor process stability.

Multiscale Modelling of De Novo Anaerobic Granulation.A multiscale mathematical model is presented to describe de novo granulation, and the evolution of multispecies granular biofilms, in a continuously fed bioreactor. The granule is modelled as a spherical free boundary domain with radial symmetry. The equation governing the free boundary is derived from global mass balance considerations and takes into account the growth of sessile biomass as well as exchange fluxes with the bulk liquid. Starting from a vanishing initial value, the expansion of the free boundary is initiated by the attachment process, which depends on the microbial species concentrations within the bulk liquid and their specific attachment velocity. Nonlinear hyperbolic PDEs model the growth of the sessile microbial species, while quasi-linear parabolic PDEs govern the dynamics of substrates and invading species within the granular biofilm. Nonlinear ODEs govern the evolution of soluble substrates and planktonic biomass within the bulk liquid. The model is applied to an anaerobic, granular-based bioreactor system, and solved numerically to test its qualitative behaviour and explore the main aspects of de novo anaerobic granulation: ecology, biomass distribution, relative abundance, dimensional evolution of the granules and soluble substrates, and planktonic biomass dynamics within the bioreactor. The numerical results confirm that the model accurately describes the ecology and the concentrically layered structure of anaerobic granules observed experimentally, and that it can predict the effects on the process of significant factors, such as influent wastewater composition; granulation properties of planktonic biomass; biomass density; detachment intensity; and number of granules.

Quantitative microbial risk assessment associated with ready-to-eat salads following the application of farmyard manure and slurry or anaerobic digestate to arable lands.Farmyard manure and slurry (FYM&S) and anaerobic digestate are potentially valuable soil conditioners providing important nutrients for plant development and growth. However, these organic fertilisers may pose a microbial health risk to humans. A quantitative microbial risk assessment (QMRA) model was developed to investigate the potential human exposure to pathogens following the application of FYM&S and digestate to agricultural land. The farm-to-fork probabilistic model investigated the fate of microbial indicators (total coliforms and enterococci) and foodborne pathogens in the soil with potential contamination of ready-to-eat salads (RTEs) at the point of human consumption. The processes examined included pathogen inactivation during mesophilic anaerobic digestion (M-AD), post-AD pasteurisation, storage, dilution while spreading, decay in soil, post-harvest washing processes, and finally, the potential growth of the pathogen during refrigeration/storage at the retail level in the Irish context. The QMRA highlighted a very low annual probability of risk (P) due to Clostridium perfringens, norovirus, and Salmonella Newport across all scenarios. Mycobacterium avium may result in a very high mean P for the application of raw FYM&S, while Cryptosporidium parvum and pathogenic E. coli showed high P, and Listeria monocytogenes displayed moderate P for raw FYM&S application. The use of AD reduces this risk; however, pasteurisation reduces the P to an even greater extent posing a very low risk. An overall sensitivity analysis revealed that mesophilic-AD's inactivation effect is the most sensitive parameter of the QMRA, followed by storage and the decay on the field (all negatively correlated to risk estimate). The information generated from this model can help to inform guidelines for policymakers on the maximum permissible indicator or pathogen contamination levels in the digestate. The QMRA can also provide the AD industry with a safety assessment of pathogenic organisms resulting from the digestion of FYM&S.

Stimulatory effects of biochar addition on dry anaerobic co-digestion of pig manure and food waste under mesophilic conditions.The stimulatory effect of biochar addition on dry anaerobic digestion (AD) has been rarely investigated. In this study, the effects of commonly used biochars (bamboo, rice husk, and pecan shell) on dry co-AD were investigated using mesophilic batch digesters fed with pig manure and food waste as substrates. The results show that the specific methane yield was mildly elevated with the addition of biochars by 7.9%, 9.4%, and 12.0% for bamboo, rice husk, and pecan shell-derived biochar additions, respectively. Biochar did facilitate the degradation of poorly biodegradable organics. In comparison, there was no significant effect on the peak methane production rate by the supplementation of the selected biochars. Among the three mechanisms of enhancing methanogenesis by biochar (buffering, providing supporting surface, and enhancing electron transfer), the first two mechanisms did not function significantly in dry co-AD, while the third mechanism (i.e., enhancing electron transfer) might play an important part in dry AD process. It is recommended that the utilization of biochar for the enhancement of biomethanation in dry AD should be more focused on mono digestion in future studies.

Carbon based conductive materials mediated recalcitrant toxicity mitigation during anaerobic digestion of thermo-chemically pre-treated organic fraction of municipal solid waste.High-temperature thermal pretreatment alone or in conjugation with chemical pretreatment (highly acidic or alkaline) produced recalcitrant compounds, which inhibits the anaerobic digestion (AD) process performance. This study aims to develop a strategy to use carbon-based conductive materials to mitigate the recalcitrant toxicity and enhance the methane generation in the downstream AD. The formation of recalcitrant compounds, mainly the furan derivatives, i.e., furfural and 5-HydroxyMethyl furfurals (5-HMF) during thermo-chemical pretreatment of OFMSW at 150 °C, 175 °C, 200 °C with 3 g/L-NaOH dose, and the alleviation of their inhibitory effects by adding 25 g/L of each of granular activated carbon (GAC) and granular biochar (GBC) during mesophilic AD were studied. The addition of conductive materials resulted in the highest biogas yield of 462 mL/gVS (GAC) and 449 mL/gVS (GBC) for 175°C-3g/L-NaOH pretreatment, which was >45% higher over control. The highest improvement of >65% in biogas yield was observed for 200°C-3g/L-NaOH pretreatment despite the lower biogas yield. The conductive materials amended digester shows a significant decrease in the 5-HMF and furfurals concertation. The highest reduction in 5-HMF (44%) and furfural (51%) concentrations were observed for 200°C-3g/L-NaOH pretreatment, and 25 g/L GBC amended tests. The score plots from the principal component analysis (PCA) of the characterization of the digestate showed that the data were significant, whereas the loading plots depicted the correlation of different experimental parameters studied (like fate of recalcitrant, biogas yield and other parameters post AD of OFMSW when aided with conductive materials). Application of regression models in all the batch assays depicted that a lag phase of 2-4 days was observed in Modified Gompertz Model (MGM), 4-5 days in Logistic Model (LM) and a rapid hydrolysis was proven with the value of hydrolysis coefficient being between 0.003 and 0.029 from the first-order (FO) model.

The interaction between lipids and ammoniacal nitrogen mitigates inhibition in mesophilic anaerobic digestion.Ammoniacal nitrogen and long chain fatty acids (LCFA) are common inhibitors of the anaerobic digestion process. However, the interaction between these inhibitors has received little attention. Understanding the interaction between these inhibitors is important to optimise the operation of anaerobic digesters treating slaughterhouse waste or using fat, oil and grease (FOG) as co-substrate among others. To study the interaction between ammoniacal nitrogen and LCFA inhibition, 20 different conditions were trialled in mesophilic batch tests. Experimental conditions included 5 mixtures between slaughterhouse wastewater and LCFA (100:0, 75:25, 50:50, 20:80, 0:100 on a VS basis), each one tested at 4 different ammoniacal nitrogen concentrations (0, 1, 3, 6 gN·L). Experimental and modelling results showed that ammoniacal nitrogen inhibition was less severe in LCFA-rich mixtures, indicating that LCFA mitigated ammoniacal nitrogen inhibition to a certain extent. However, the positive interaction between inhibitors did not only depend on the LCFA concentration. A protective LCFA coat that limited the diffusion of free ammonia into the cell and/or provided a localised lower pH in the vicinity of the microbial cell could explain the experimental results. However, ammoniacal nitrogen and LCFA inhibition comprise up to 6 different but interrelated inhibitors (i.e. NH, NH, LCFA, VFA, H and pH) and therefore the specific mechanism could not be elucidated. Nonetheless, these results suggest that LCFA do not exacerbate TAN-related inhibition and that LCFA-rich substrates can be utilised as co-substrates in mesophilic N-rich digesters.

Prediction of organic matter accessibility and complexity in anaerobic digestates.Further characterization to properly assess the fate of organic matter quality during anaerobic digestion and organic carbon mineralization in soils is required. Organic matter quality based on its accessibility and complexity was employed to successfully classify 28 substrate/digestate pairs through principal components and hierarchical clustering analysis. The two first components explained 58.02% of the variability and four main groups were separated according to the feedstock type. A decrease in the accessibility (16-66%) and an increase in the complexity (34-98%) of the most accessible fractions was noticed. Besides, an increase of non-biodegradable compounds (17-66%) was globally observed after anaerobic digestion. The observed trends in the conversion of organic matter during anaerobic digestion have allowed to fill the gap in the modeling of the anaerobic digestion process chain. Indeed, partial least squares regressions have accurately predicted the organic matter quality of digestates from their inputs (R = 0.831, Q = 0.593) although the digester operational conditions (temperature and hydraulic retention time) were non-explicative enough. As a novel approach, the predicted digestate quality was used to feed a partial least squares regression model previously developed to predict organic carbon mineralization in soil. The combined models have predicted experimental organic carbon mineralization in soil (R = 0.697) with a model quality similar to the model for organic carbon mineralization in soil (R = 0.894). This is the first study that has successfully conceived an additional step in the prediction of organic matter fate from raw substrate before anaerobic digestion to soil carbon mineralization.

Estimation of methane production through the anaerobic digestion of greenhouse horticultural waste: A real case study for the Almeria region.The methane production of greenhouse horticultural waste (GHW) from Almeria (Spain), from where fruits and vegetables are exported to all parts of Europe, was calculated in this work through a combination of experimental and theoretical methods. To this end, eight samples of GHW were collected and characterized in a waste treatment plant. The collection of samples was fairly distributed throughout the year to ensure a representative characterization. The amount of methane produced in a hypothetical anaerobic digestion process was predicted through empirical models fed by experimental data. The experimental characterization revealed that GHW contained an adequate content of volatile matter (65.72% TS), but a high value for total dry matter (53.46%) and lignin content (9.36%), as well as a low moisture content (46.54%) and C/N ratio (17.46). Inhibiting compounds were also observed in the characterization, such a S (0.43%) and Cl (1.41%). The methane production predicted was 0.229 Nm CH/kg volatile matter, which may seem low in comparison to other waste potentially usable for anaerobic digestion. Nonetheless, the co-digestion of GHW with other waste could be an interesting alternative to enhance methane production and solve seasonality issues. Suitable pre-treatment can be also explored to increase the usability of GHW in anaerobic digestion. All in all, this work establishes a theoretical basis for potential solutions to manage the GHW produced in Almeria.

Saponification with calcium has different impacts on anaerobic digestion of saturated/unsaturated long chain fatty acids.Little is known about the influence of the saturation degree of long chain fatty acids (LCFAs) on the bio-methane potential of calcium-LCFAs salts. In this study, palmitic acid and oleic acid were chosen as the model compounds to investigate the impact of saponification between calcium and saturated/unsaturated LCFAs on the methane recovery from LCFAs in anaerobic digestion. A 2.2-fold enhancement of methane yield was obtained due to the formation of calcium palmitate, which was primarily attributed to the enhanced bio-aggregation and significant change of microbial community. However, saponification between calcium and oleic acid decreased the methane recovery from oleic acid digestion. Only partial saponification with excess oleic acid led to 4% increment of methane production. The low bio-accessibility of calcium oleate and the little change of microbial community may be responsible for the small difference of methane recovery due to the formation of calcium oleate.

Roles of granular activated carbon (GAC) and operational factors on active microbiome development in anaerobic reactors.Ambient temperature municipal sewage was treated using two laboratory-scale up-flow anaerobic sludge blanket reactors for 225 days. Granular activated carbon (GAC) was added to one reactor to facilitate the development of direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET). The GAC addition increased total chemical oxygen demand removal by 5% - 18%. In addition to assessing the relative abundance of active amplicon sequence variants (ASVs), the mass balance model, the Mantel test, and the generalized linear models were applied to evaluate the dynamics of the active ASVs and the key operational factors controlling the bioreactor microbial community. These results demonstrated that, in addition to the GAC addition, extrinsic engineering operational factors played important roles in controlling (active) microbial communities. This study underlines the importance of taking a wholistic approach to assess microbial population dynamics. Reactor design and performance prediction should consider key engineering parameters when using DIET-based AD reactors in the future.

Microbial community assembly and dynamics in Granular, Fixed-Biofilm and planktonic microbiomes valorizing Long-Chain fatty acids at 20 °C.Distinct microbial assemblages evolve in anaerobic digestion (AD) reactors to drive sequential conversions of organics to methane. The spatio-temporal development of three such assemblages (granules, biofilms, planktonic) derived from the same inoculum was studied in replicated bioreactors treating long-chain fatty acids (LCFA)-rich wastewater at 20 °C at hydraulic retention times (HRTs) of 12-72 h. We found granular, biofilm and planktonic assemblages differentiated by diversity, structure, and assembly mechanisms; demonstrating a spatial compartmentalisation of the microbiomes from the initial community reservoir. Our analysis linked abundant Methanosaeta and Syntrophaceae-affiliated taxa (Syntrophus and uncultured) to their putative, active roles in syntrophic LCFA bioconversion. LCFA loading rates (stearate, palmitate), and HRT, were significant drivers shaping microbial community dynamics and assembly. This study of the archaea and syntrophic bacteria actively valorising LCFAs at short HRTs and 20 °C will help uncover the microbiology underpinning anaerobic bioconversions of fats, oil and grease.

Applying PICRUSt and 16S rRNA functional characterisation to predicting co-digestion strategies of various animal manures for biogas production.An estimated 25 million tons of animal manure is produced globally every year, causing considerable impact to the environment. These impacts can be managed through the use of anaerobic digestion (AD) This process achieves waste degradation through enzymatic activity, the efficiency of the AD process is directly related to microorganisms that produce these enzymes. Biomethane potential (BMP) assays remain the standard theoretical framework to pre-determine biogas yield and have been used to determine the feasibility of substrates or their combination for biogas production. However, an integrated approach that combines substrate choice and co-digestion would provide an improvement to the current predictive models. PICRUSt (Phylogenetic Investigation of Communities by Reconstruction of Unobserved States) addresses the limitations of assays in this regard. In this paper, the biochemical functions of horse, cow, and pig manures are predicted. A total of 135 predicted KEGG Orthologies (KOs) showed amino acids, carbohydrate, energy, lipid, and xenobiotic metabolisms in all the samples. Linear discriminant analysis (LDA) combined with the effect size measurements (LEfSe), showed that fructose, mannose, amino acid and nucleotide sugar, phosphotransferase (PST) as well as starch and sucrose metabolisms were significantly higher in horse manure samples. 36 of the KOs were related to the acidogenesis and/or acetogenesis AD stages. Extended bar plots showed that 11 significant predictions were observed for horse-cow, while 5 were predicted for horse-pig and for cow-pig manures. Based on these predictions, the AD process can be enhanced through co-digestion strategies that takes into account the predicted metabolic contributions of the manure samples. The results supported the BMP calculations for the samples in this study. Biogas yields can be improved if this combined approach is employed in routine analysis before co-digesting different substrates.

Anaerobic co-digestion of various organic wastes: Kinetic modeling and synergistic impact evaluation.Anaerobic mono- and co-digestion of coffee pulp (CP), cattle manure (CM), food waste (FW) and dewatered sewage sludge (DSS), were assessed using biochemical methane potential tests. The effects of two different inocula, anaerobically digested cattle manure (ADCM) and anaerobically digested waste activated sludge (ADWAS), and five different co-feedstock ratios for CP:CM and FW:DSS (1:0, 4:1, 2:1, 4:3, and 0:1) on specific methane yields were also evaluated. Mono-digestions of both CP and FW yielded the highest methane yield compared to the co-digestion ratios examined. Furthermore, no synergistic or antagonistic effect was observed for any of the co-digestion ratios tested. Nine different kinetic models (five conventional mono-digestion models and four co-digestion models) were compared and evaluated for both mono- and co-digestion studies. For CP:CM, cone and modified Gompertz with second order equation models were the best-fit for mono- and co-digestion systems, respectively, while for FW:DSS, superimposed model showed the best-fit for all systems.

Mechanisms for Electron Uptake by Methanosarcina acetivorans during Direct Interspecies Electron Transfer.Direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) between bacteria and methanogenic archaea appears to be an important syntrophy in both natural and engineered methanogenic environments. However, the electrical connections on the outer surface of methanogens and the subsequent processing of electrons for carbon dioxide reduction to methane are poorly understood. Here, we report that the genetically tractable methanogen Methanosarcina acetivorans can grow via DIET in coculture with Geobacter metallireducens serving as the electron-donating partner. Comparison of gene expression patterns in  grown in coculture versus pure-culture growth on acetate revealed that transcripts for the outer-surface multiheme type cytochrome MmcA were higher during DIET-based growth. Deletion of  inhibited DIET. The high aromatic amino acid content of  archaellins suggests that they might assemble into electrically conductive archaella. A mutant that could not express archaella was deficient in DIET. However, this mutant grew in DIET-based coculture as well as the archaellum-expressing parental strain in the presence of granular activated carbon, which was previously shown to serve as a substitute for electrically conductive pili as a conduit for long-range interspecies electron transfer in other DIET-based cocultures. Transcriptomic data suggesting that the membrane-bound Rnf, Fpo, and HdrED complexes also play a role in DIET were incorporated into a charge-balanced model illustrating how electrons entering the cell through MmcA can yield energy to support growth from carbon dioxide reduction. The results are the first genetics-based functional demonstration of likely outer-surface electrical contacts for DIET in a methanogen.  The conversion of organic matter to methane plays an important role in the global carbon cycle and is an effective strategy for converting wastes to a useful biofuel. The reduction of carbon dioxide to methane accounts for approximately a third of the methane produced in anaerobic soils and sediments as well as waste digesters. Potential electron donors for carbon dioxide reduction are H or electrons derived from direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) between bacteria and methanogens. Elucidating the relative importance of these electron donors has been difficult due to a lack of information on the electrical connections on the outer surfaces of methanogens and how they process the electrons received from DIET. Transcriptomic patterns and gene deletion phenotypes reported here provide insight into how a group of  organisms that play an important role in methane production in soils and sediments participate in DIET.

System dynamics kinetic model for predicting biogas production in anaerobic condition: Preliminary assessment.This preliminary assessment of a grey-box model, was predicated on system dynamics principles and developed using Vensim DSS software. The purpose is to predict biogas production under anaerobic conditions for energy utilization at the design stage.
To describe the process of a developed system dynamics model to predict biogas production under anaerobic conditions.
This method involves two-stage kinetics of the biogas production process in anaerobic conditions using the first-order and Gompertz functions. The model is depicted in two parts: causal loop diagram and stock-flow diagram. The causal loop diagram describes the anaerobic digestion process a substrate undergoes for the production of biogas, while stock-flow diagram depicts basic building blocks of the dynamic behavior of an anaerobic digestion process. Primary data is from a laboratory-scale experiment of biogas production using vegetal wastes, while the secondary one is from the literature on studies using similar substrates.
Primary and secondary data are used to validate and stimulate the developed model. The kinetic model shows the substrate being reduced exponentially with increasing time; consumption of substrate and production of methane and carbon dioxide follows exponential growth and decay pattern, with carbon dioxide production starting early compared to methane, and was produced at a rate faster due to the strong and resilient characteristics of fermentative microorganisms.
Comparing data from empirical and model simulation shows some close relationship, though not too perfectly. Both results reflect signs of inhibitions occurring within the substrates in the digester under anaerobic conditions explaining the low methane yield or instability.

Prediction of biogas production in anaerobic co-digestion of organic wastes using deep learning models.Interest in anaerobic co-digestion (AcoD) has increased significantly in recent decades owing to enhanced biogas productivity due to the utilization of different organic wastes, such as food waste and sewage sludge. In this study, a robust AcoD model for biogas prediction is developed using deep learning (DL). We propose a hybrid DL architecture, i.e., DA-LSTM-VSN, wherein a dual-stage-attention (DA)-based long short-term memory (LSTM) network is integrated with variable selection networks (VSNs). To enhance the model predictability, we perform hyperparameter optimization. The model accuracy is validated using long-term AcoD monitoring data measured over two years of municipal wastewater treatment plant operation and then compared with those of two other DL-based models (i.e., DA-LSTM and the standard LSTM). In addition, the feature importance (FI) is analyzed to investigate the relative contribution of input variables to biogas production prediction. Finally, we demonstrate the successful application of the validated DL model to the AcoD process optimization. Results show that the model accuracy improved significantly by incorporating DA into LSTM, i.e., the coefficient of determination (R) increased from 0.38 to 0.68; however, the R can be further increased to 0.76 by combining DA-LSTM with a VSN. For the biogas prediction of the AcoD model, the VSN contributes significantly by employing the discontinuous time series of measurement data on biodegradable organic-associated variables during AcoD. In addition, the VSN allows the AcoD model to be interpretable via FI analysis using its weighted input features. The FI results show that the relative importance is vital to variables associated with food waste leachate, whereas it is marginal for those associated with the primary and chemically assisted sedimentation sludges. In conclusion, the AcoD model proposed herein can be utilized in practical applications as a robust tool because it can provide the optimal sludge conditions to improve biogas production. This is because it facilitates the time-series biogas prediction at the full scale using unprocessed datasets with either missing value imputation or outlier removal.

Multi-objective optimization of technology solutions in municipal solid waste treatment system coupled with pollutants cross-media metabolism issues.The environmental impact, energy conservation, and economic cost are prominent decision criteria in municipal solid waste (MSW) management, among which trade-off relationships widely exist because of different features of pollutant treatment technologies. These three objectives should thereby be simultaneously considered in the design of technology combinations in MSW treatment system (MSWTS). In addition, comprehensive characterization of environmental impact of the whole MSWTS should cover the complex pollutants cross-media metabolism in the treatment of both MSW and subsequent secondary pollution. This study developed a multi-objective optimization model to select optimal technology solutions in MSWTS. Three objectives, the minimizations of total environmental impact calculated from pollutants cross-media metabolism perspective, net energy consumption, and total cost are optimized through the second generation of the Non-dominated Sorting Genetic Algorithm (NSGA-II). Final MSW management schemes under environment, energy, and cost preferences are obtained through Vlsekriterijumska Optimizacija I Kompromisno Resenje (VIKOR) method. This paper uses China's MSWTS as a case study and finds that Pareto optimal solutions can reduce the total environmental impact and the net energy consumption by 24.2% and 7.4% respectively, while increase the total cost by 18.2% in average, compared with the baseline scenario. The promotion of MSW biological treatment technologies, especially anaerobic digestion (AD), can effectively improve the environmental performance of MSWTS, while the current vigorous promotion of MSW incineration in China is not recommended. Sludge co-processing in cement kiln is highly promoted under all three types of management preferences. In summary, the proposed methodology can provide decision support for the optimal design of technology solutions in MSWTS.

Glycolysis-related gene expression profiling serves as a novel prognosis risk predictor for human hepatocellular carcinoma.Metabolic pattern reconstruction is an important factor in tumor progression. Metabolism of tumor cells is characterized by abnormal increase in anaerobic glycolysis, regardless of high oxygen concentration, resulting in a significant accumulation of energy from glucose sources. These changes promotes rapid cell proliferation and tumor growth, which is further referenced a process known as the Warburg effect. The current study reconstructed the metabolic pattern in progression of cancer to identify genetic changes specific in cancer cells. A total of 12 common types of solid tumors were included in the current study. Gene set enrichment analysis (GSEA) was performed to analyze 9 glycolysis-related gene sets, which are implicated in the glycolysis process. Univariate and multivariate analyses were used to identify independent prognostic variables for construction of a nomogram based on clinicopathological characteristics and a glycolysis-related gene prognostic index (GRGPI). The prognostic model based on glycolysis genes showed high area under the curve (AUC) in LIHC (Liver hepatocellular carcinoma). The findings of the current study showed that 8 genes (AURKA, CDK1, CENPA, DEPDC1, HMMR, KIF20A, PFKFB4, STMN1) were correlated with overall survival (OS) and recurrence-free survival (RFS). Further analysis showed that the prediction model accurately distinguished between high- and low-risk cancer patients among patients in different clusters in LIHC. A nomogram with a well-fitted calibration curve based on gene expression profiles and clinical characteristics showed good discrimination based on internal and external cohorts. These findings indicate that changes in expression level of metabolic genes implicated in glycolysis can contribute to reconstruction of tumor-related microenvironment.

Acclimation of an algal consortium to sequester nutrients from anaerobic digestate.The objective of this research was to investigate the growth, community composition, and digestate treatment performance of a local algae consortium that was adapted to bacteria-pretreated digestate. The approach was to subculture a local consortium on pretreated dairy manure digestate and then municipal wastewater sludge digestate, allowing the community to adapt before assessing its performance. The adapted consortium was then tested for growth and nutrient removal performance on the digestates and compared to the model organism, Chlorella sorokiniana. Dramatic restructuring of the consortium took place when subcultured on the digestates with Scenedesmaceae and Chlorellaceae almost completely replacing Euglena. The consortium was consistently less productive than C. sorokiniana (184 vs. 248 mg/L/d in dairy digestate and 32 vs. 48 mg/L/d in municipal digestate, P < 0.01). Pretreatment increased growth by 81% and 500% for C. sorokiniana and the consortium, respectively, in dairy digestate (P < 0.01), and allowed for algal growth in municipal digestate.

Label-free quantitative proteomic analysis of the oral bacteria Fusobacterium nucleatum and Porphyromonas gingivalis to identify protein features relevant in biofilm formation.The opportunistic pathogens Fusobacterium nucleatum and Porphyromonas gingivalis are Gram-negative bacteria associated with oral biofilm and periodontal disease. This study investigated interactions between F. nucleatum and P. gingivalis proteomes with the objective to identify proteins relevant in biofilm formation.
We applied liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry to determine the expressed proteome of F. nucleatum and P. gingivalis cells grown in biofilm or planktonic culture, and as mono- and dual-species models. The detected proteins were classified into functional categories and their label-free quantitative (LFQ) intensities statistically compared.
The proteomic analyses detected 1,322 F. nucleatum and 966 P. gingivalis proteins, including abundant virulence factors. Using univariate statistics, we identified significant changes between biofilm and planktonic culture (p-value ≤0.05) in 0,4% F. nucleatum, 7% P. gingivalis, and 14% of all proteins in the dual-species model. For both species, proteins involved in vitamin B2 (riboflavin) metabolism had significantly increased levels in biofilm. In both mono- and dual-species biofilms, P. gingivalis increased the production of proteins for translation, oxidation-reduction, and amino acid metabolism compared to planktonic cultures. However, when we compared LFQ intensities between mono- and dual-species, over 90% of the significantly changed P. gingivalis proteins had their levels reduced in biofilm and planktonic settings of the dual-species model.
The findings suggest that P. gingivalis reduces the production of multiple proteins because of the F. nucleatum presence. The results highlight the complex interactions of bacteria contributing to oral biofilms, which need to be considered in the design of prevention strategies.

Unveiling the mechanisms of a novel polyoxometalates (POMs)-based pretreatment technology for enhancing methane production from waste activated sludge.This study proposed a novel polyoxometalates (POMs)-based pretreatment technology to improve methane production from waste activated sludge (WAS) for the first time. Experimental results indicated methane production from WAS pretreated with 0.25 g POMs/g TSS increased by 43.7%. Mechanism analysis revealed POMs pretreatment promoted WAS disintegration and improved the biodegradability of the released organics. The declined oxidation-reduction potential of digestion system provided a more favorable situation for anaerobes, and hence had positive impacts on the activity of enzymes associated with hydrolysis/acidification/methanogenesis. Model-based analysis elucidated POMs pretreatment remarkably increased both biochemical methane potential and hydrolysis rate. Microbial community analysis showed microbial community was shifted toward increase hydrolytic and acidification-associated microbes and enriched the abundance of Methanosaeta sp. This work is expected to develop an innovative technology that will simultaneously enhance energy production from WAS in the sludge treatment line and improve biological nutrient removal in the wastewater treatment line of WWTPs.

Kinetic study and optimization of total solids for anaerobic digestion of kitchen waste: Bangladesh perspective.Kitchen waste from hotels and homes is one of the major problems for urban and rural environment and could be one of the best sources of renewable energy by producing biogas through anaerobic digestion. A research work was undertaken to assess the methane potential of kitchen waste at different total solids (TS) content. Kitchen wastes such as spoiled rice, brinjal, potato, papaya, tomato, fish and poultry parts etc., which are easily decomposed, were selected for this study. Batch experiments were set up under ambient temperature. Kitchen waste was added to the batch digester at different TS content (5, 7, 10, 12 and 15%) and sealed for 146 days until the gas production stopped. Substrate characteristics were analyzed before and after the anaerobic digestion. The highest methane yield was 78.12 L/kg VS at 15% TS content followed by 12, 10, 7 and 5%. Different kinetic parameters were determined using a logistic model and the model showed a good fit with the experimental results. After modelling using Minitab, the optimum TS content for kitchen waste was found to be 14.90%.

Bioengineered bioreactors: a review on enhancing biomethane and biohydrogen production by CFD modeling.Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) is numerical strategy developed for simulating the behavior of liquid and gas flow. CFD may be applied starting from aerospace, engine design, vehicle aerodynamics, power plants and chemical industries for analyzing and solving relevant system design and process issues. Biogas produced during anaerobic digestion (AD) is sustainable and renewable alternative to fossil fuels. AD may improve the controlled production of biogas and offers significant environmental benefits. This review focuses on research outcomes relevant for enhanced biogas production by exploring the possible applications of CFD in AD technology. CFD-related research performed in AD conditions in order to improve mixing performance, reduce power consumption, and understand the effects of total solid (TS) concentrations on flow behavior have been discussed. In addition, the use of AD for bio-hydrogen production, wastewater treatment, and sludge treatment are looked in. This review also identifies novel areas for AD technology advancement where there is potential for economic improvement in renewable energy production. Finally, future research needs have been identified, focusing on the opportunities to integrate conceptual and mathematical models for advancing CFD simulations for bioenergy.

Establishment of a Modular Anaerobic Human Intestine Chip.It is impossible to analyze human-specific host-microbiome interactions using animal models and existing in vitro methods fail to support survival of human cells in direct contact with complex living microbiota for extended times. Here we describe a protocol for culturing human organ-on-a-chip (Organ Chip) microfluidic devices lined by human patient-derived primary intestinal epithelium in the presence of a physiologically relevant transluminal hypoxia gradient that enables their coculture with hundreds of different living aerobic and anaerobic bacteria found within the human gut microbiome. This protocol can be adapted to provide different levels of oxygen tension to facilitate coculturing of microbiome from different regions of gastrointestinal tract, and the same system can be applied with any other type of Organ Chip. This method can help to provide further insight into the host-microbiome interactions that contribute to human health and disease, enable discovery of new microbiome-related diagnostics and therapeutics, and provide a novel approach to advanced personalized medicine.

Delivery and effects of proton pump inhibitor on anaerobic digestion of food and kitchen waste under ammonia stress.Ammonia stress changes microbial metabolism of anaerobic digestion and decreases methane yield, where proton pump overactivated by free ammonia suggested to be the centre of the metabolism changes in anaerobic digestion under ammonia stress. The work demonstrated that proton pump inhibitor (PPI) could alleviate the overactivated proton pump and mitigate ammonia inhibition. Its impacts on iron transporter, substrates uptake, and energy conservation were investigated in anaerobic digestion treating food and kitchen waste. The PPI formed a stimuli-responsive drug delivery system driven by pH for the more inhibited microbe (p < 0.01), confirmed by FE-SEM/EDS and high throughput sequencing, implying the PPI was activated at inhibited microbe more than mixed liquor. Consistent microbial population increase observed in syntrophs and methanogens, who utilized the substrates for high yielding pathway and facilitated the energy sharing by direct interspecies electron transfer. These results demonstrated PPI could recovery methane production and could mitigate fatty-acid accumulation under high ammonia stress by delivery and activation in acetoclastic methanogen.

A simple mass balance tool to predict carbon and nitrogen fluxes in anaerobic digestion systems.The increase in anaerobic digestion systems has profoundly affected the waste management of territories, particularly for agricultural systems. Changes in cultural practices and imports of organic waste modify the carbon (C) and nitrogen (N) fluxes on territories where anaerobic digestion is implemented. Successful anaerobic digestion can increase the economic and ecological efficiency of the waste management system. Conversely, poor anaerobic digestion leads to low economic and environmental efficiency due to greenhouse gas emissions and nutrient loss. Modeling the impact of anaerobic digestion on the systems integrating anaerobic digestion can improve the efficiency of these practices. The aim of this study was to develop, analyze, and evaluate a simple mass balance tool able to predict carbon and nitrogen fluxes in anaerobic digestion systems. The tool is composed of an exhaustive substrate database used by three models: (i) an anaerobic digestion model that predicts C and N contents in biogas and digestate; (ii) a phase separation model that predicts C and N content in liquid and solid phase digestates; and (iii) a storage model that predicts C and N content in raw, liquid phase, and solid phase digestates, as well as C and N emissions during storage. Sensitivity analyses were performed on the tool to determine critical inputs. Sensitivity analysis showed that outputs were highly sensitive to their respective inputs and to total inputs of solids. Performance evaluation showed that the tool can provide good quality predictions with R correlations between observation and prediction varying from 0.72 to 0.99 with the best predictions obtained for raw digestate.

Prediction of biogas production rate from dry anaerobic digestion of food waste: Process-based approach vs. recurrent neural network black-box model.The stability of dry anaerobic digestion (AD) of food waste (FW) as well as the resulting methane gas generation was investigated from the perspective of system dynamics. Various organic loading rates were applied to the system by modifying the water content in the FW feed and solid retention time (SRT). The excessive organic loading due to the accumulation of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) from the feed with 80% water content during the short SRT (15 and 20 d) caused system failure. In contrast, more intermediate materials, such as VFAs, was easily converted into methane at higher water contents. In addition, the biogas production rate of dry AD was effectively predicted based on SRT, soluble chemical oxygen demand, total VFA, total ammonia, and free ammonia using a recurrent neural network-the so-called "black-box" model. This implies the feasibility of applying this data-based black-box model for controlling and optimizing complex biological processes.

Kinetics of combined hydrothermal pretreatment and anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic biomass (pepper plant and eggplant).A large quantity of lignocellulosic biomass is generated annually across the world which leads to environmental pollution and requires valorization. This study investigated the effect of hydrothermal pretreatment on the anaerobic digestion and co-digestion of the residual pepper plant and eggplant with a focus on kinetics. Two thermal hydrolysis rates were observed, with the optimal conditions for the hydrothermal pretreatment of lignocellulosic biomass being 120°C for 40 min. Subsequently, single and combined biomethanization was successfully carried out in laboratory-scale completely stirred tank reactors at mesophilic temperature (35°C). A high increase in methane production was observed after the pretreatment of the pepper plant and eggplant. The pretreated and co-digested wastes led to an optimal methane yield of 79 ± 23 mL CH/g VS. The modiﬁed Gompertz model was used to ﬁt the cumulative methane production of the pretreated lignocellulosic substrates. The kinetic model adequately reproduced the experimental results and might be considered a useful tool to simulate the biomethanization behaviour of complex organic substrates.

Time-course analysis of metabolomic and microbial responses in anaerobic digesters exposed to ammonia.Omics longitudinal studies are effective experimental designs to inform on the stability and dynamics of microbial communities in response to perturbations, but time-course analytical frameworks are required to fully exploit the temporal information acquired in this context. In this study we investigate the influence of ammonia on the stability of anaerobic digestion (AD) microbiome with a new statistical framework. Ammonia can severely reduce AD performance. Understanding how it affects microbial communities development and the degradation progress is a key operational issue to propose more stable processes. Thirty batch digesters were set-up with different levels of ammonia. Microbial community structure and metabolomic profiles were monitored with 16 S-metabarcoding and GCMS (gas-chromatography-mass-spectrometry). Digesters were first grouped according to similar degradation performances. Within each group, time profiles of OTUs and metabolites were modelled, then clustered into similar time trajectories, evidencing for example a syntrophic interaction between Syntrophomonas and Methanoculleus that was maintained up to 387 mg FAN/L. Metabolites resulting from organic matter fermentation, such as dehydroabietic or phytanic acid, decreased with increasing ammonia levels. Our analytical framework enabled to fully account for time variability and integrate this parameter in data analysis.

Enhancement of anaerobic digestion digital twin through aerobic simulation and kinetic optimization for co-digestion scenarios.An upgraded digital twin of the Anaerobic Digestion Model 1 is proposed to enhance its industrial applicability and range of use. Through the optimization and generalization of kinetic coefficients toward co-digestion reactors simulation and insertion of new equations for the complete biokinetics modeling of HS, the proposed model can predict more precisely the exiting biogas fractions comprehensive of HS and O without any parametric adjustment. Moreover, it is proposed a new function representing the oxygen-methanogens. The model has been validated through the comparison with other literature models and with experimental data coming both from the literature and from an industrial plant. The comparisons show its flexibility and industrial applicability. Finally, an optimization of the methane content through oxygen rate adjustment is proposed, increasing CH content of 4%vol. The mathematical model has been built using Python™, which makes it easily spreadable and usable.

3 4
Ulva intestinalis
Efficiency of FeO Nanoparticles with Different Pretreatments for Enhancing Biogas Yield of Macroalgae  Linnaeus.In this work, different pretreatment methods for algae proved to be very effective in improving cell wall dissociation for biogas production. In this study, the  Linnaeus () has been exposed to individual pretreatments of (ultrasonic, ozone, microwave, and green synthesized FeO) and in a combination of the first three mentioned pretreatments methods with magnetite (FeO) NPs, (ultrasonic-FeO, ozone-FeO and microwave-FeO) in different treatment times. Moreover, the green synthesized FeO NPs has been confirmed by FTIR, TEM, XRD, SEM, EDEX, PSA and BET. The maximum biogas production of 179 and 206 mL/g VS have been attained when  has been treated with ultrasonic only and when combined microwave with FeO respectively, where sediment were used as inoculum in all pretreatments. From the obtained results, green FeO NPs enhanced the microwave (MW) treatment to produce a higher biogas yield (206 mL/g VS) when compared with individual MW (84 mL/g VS). The modified Gompertz model ( = 0.996 was appropriate model to match the calculated biogas production and could be used more practically to distinguish the kinetics of the anaerobic digestion (AD) period. The assessment of XRD, SEM and FTIR discovered the influence of different treatment techniques on the cell wall structure of .

Considering syntrophic acetate oxidation and ionic strength improves the performance of models for food waste anaerobic digestion.Current mechanistic anaerobic digestion (AD) models cannot accurately represent the underlying processes occurring during food waste (FW) AD. This work presents an update of the Anaerobic Digestion Model no. 1 (ADM1) to provide accurate estimations of free ammonia concentrations and related inhibition thresholds, and model syntrophic acetate oxidation as acetate-consuming pathway. A modified Davies equation predicted NH concentrations and pH more accurately, and better estimated associated inhibitory limits. Sensitivity analysis results showed the importance of accurate disintegration kinetics and volumetric mass transfer coefficients, as well as volatile fatty acids (VFAs) and hydrogen uptake rates. In contrast to the default ADM1, the modified ADM1 could represent methane production and VFA profiles simultaneously (particularly relevant for propionate uptake). The modified ADM1 was also able to predict the predominant acetate-consuming and methane-producing microbial clades. Modelling results using data from reactors dosed with granular activated carbon showed that this additive improves hydrogen uptake.

Degradation of antibiotic resistance genes and mobile gene elements in dairy manure anerobic digestion.Antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) are emerging contaminants causing serious global health concern. Interventions to address this concern include improving our understanding of methods for treating waste material of human and animal origin that are known to harbor ARGs. Anaerobic digestion is a commonly used process for treating dairy manure, and although effective in reducing ARGs, its mechanism of action is not clear. In this study, we used three ARGs to conducted a longitudinal bench scale anaerobic digestion experiment with various temperatures (28, 36, 44, and 52°C) in triplicate using fresh dairy manure for 30 days to evaluate the reduction of gene abundance. Three ARGs and two mobile genetic elements (MGEs) were studied: sulfonamide resistance gene (sulII), tetracycline resistance genes (tetW), macrolide-lincosamide-streptogramin B (MLSB) superfamily resistance genes (ermF), class 1 integrase gene (intI1), and transposase gene (tnpA). Genes were quantified by real-time quantitative PCR. Results show that the thermophilic anaerobic digestion (52°C) significantly reduced (p < 0.05) the absolute abundance of sulII (95%), intI1 (95%), tnpA (77%) and 16S rRNA gene (76%) after 30 days of digestion. A modified Collins-Selleck model was used to fit the decay curve, and results suggest that the gene reduction during the startup phase of anaerobic digestion (first 5 days) was faster than the later stage, and reductions in the first five days were more than 50% for most genes.

Elucidating the kinetics of ammonia inhibition to anaerobic digestion through extended batch experiments and stimulation-inhibition modeling.Ammonia can be accumulated to a level inhibitory to methanogenesis. There are large discrepancies in the reported inhibition thresholds. Through extended batch digestion experiments (up to 110 d) at 6 ammonia concentrations (0.70-13 g N/L), this study discovered sequential occurrence of adaptable and unadaptable inhibition that reveals the discrepancies. Lag phase length representing adaptable inhibition increased exponentially with ammonia concentration. The kinetics of specific biogas yield that reveals unadaptable inhibition was best simulated with the Han & Levenspiel model. The 50% unadaptable inhibition thresholds were 10.7 g N/L with active inoculum and 6.8 g/L with stressed inoculum. The digesters with stressed inoculum had faster adaptation to adaptable inhibition though less resistance to unadaptable inhibition. The inhibition sequence was evidenced by microbial population shifts and confirmed by earlier studies employing short (2-65 d) and long (80-198 d) batch experiments. Distinguishing adaptable from unadaptable inhibition provides precise guidance for mitigating ammonia inhibition.

Enhancement of lignocellulosic biomass anaerobic digestion by optimized mild alkaline hydrogen peroxide pretreatment for biorefinery applications.Lignocellulosic energy crops are promising feedstocks for producing renewable fuels, such as methane, that can replace diminishing fossil fuels. However, there is a major handicap in using lignocellulosic sources to produce biofuels, which is their low biodegradability. In this study, the application and the optimization of a lignocellulose pretreatment process, named alkaline hydrogen peroxide, was investigated for the enhancement of methane production from the energy crop switchgrass. Four independent process variables, solid content (3-7%), reaction temperature (50-100 °C), HO concentration (1-3%), and reaction time (6-24 h), and three response variables, soluble reducing sugar, soluble chemical oxygen demand, and biochemical methane potential were used in process optimization and modeling. The optimization was performed by two different approaches as maximum methane production and cost minimization. The optimum conditions for the highest methane production were found as 6.65 wt% solid content, 50.6 °C reaction temperature, 2.94 wt% HO concentration, and 16.05 h reaction time. The conditions providing the lowest cost were 6.43 wt% solid content, 50 °C reaction temperature, 1.83 wt% HO concentration, and 6.78 h reaction time. For maximum methane production and cost minimization, specific methane yields of 338.52 mL CH/g VS and 291.34 mL CH/g VS were predicted with 62.4 % and 39.8 % enhancements compared to untreated switchgrass, respectively. Finally, it was found that the predicted methane production for the maximum methane production represents 77 % of the theoretical methane yield and 82.22 % energy recovery.

Compositional components and methane production potential of typical vegetable wastes.With the development of agriculture, a huge amount of vegetable waste (VW) is produced every year, posing a large considerable environmental problem that cannot be ignored. Anaerobic digestion (AD), as an eco-friendly, efficient, and sustainable biomass conversion technology, may be used to address the pollution caused by VW. The compositional components of various VWs are different, which will affect their biomethane potential and directly determine whether they are suitable substrates for AD. Thus, this study involved a systematic analysis of the composition and biomethane potential of 20 typical VWs. The results showed that the methane yields of the VWs were different (207.5-346.3 mL/g VS) owing to the differences in composition. More importantly, a correlation between the contents of organic components and methane production was established, and then used to predict methane production by VW rapidly. In addition, first-order model, modified Gompertz, and Cone models were used to describe the biochemical methanogenesis mechanism of these VWs. The results of this study can provide a reference for fundamental research on the AD of VW as well as serve a convenient and precise method to predict methane production by different VWs through analyzing compositional components, which will be beneficial for pollution prevention and the comprehensive utilization of VW in the future.

Evaluation of pathogen concentration in anaerobic digestate using a predictive modelling approach (ADRISK).Farmyard manure and slurry (FYM&S) is a valuable feedstock for anaerobic digestion (AD) plants. However, FYM&S may contain high concentrations of pathogens, and complete inactivation through the AD process is unlikely. Thus, following land application of digestate, pathogens may contaminate a range of environmental media posing a potential threat to public health. The present study aimed to combine primary laboratory data with literature-based secondary data to develop an Excel-based exposure assessment model (ADRISK) using a gamma generalised linear model to predict the final microorganism count in the digestate. This research examines the behaviour of a suite of pathogens (Cryptosporidium parvum, norovirus, Mycobacterium spp., Salmonella spp., Listeria monocytogenes, Clostridium spp., and pathogenic Escherichia coli) and indicators (total coliforms, E. coli, and enterococci) during mesophilic anaerobic digestion (M-AD) at 37 °C, pre/post-AD pasteurisation, and after a period of storage (with/without lime) for different feedstock proportions (slurry:food waste: 0:1, 1:3, 2:1, and 3:1). ADRISK tool simulations of faecal indicator bacteria levels across all scenarios show that the digestate can meet the EU standard without pasteurisation if the AD runs at 37 °C or a higher temperature with a higher C:N ratio (recipe 3) and a hydraulic retention time ≥ 7 days. The storage of digestate also reduced levels of microorganisms in the digestate. The Irish pasteurisation process (60 °C for 4 days), although more energy-intensive, is more effective than the EU pasteurisation (70 °C for 1 h) specification. Pre-AD pasteurisation was more effective for C. parvum, norovirus, Mycobacterium thermoresistibile. However, post-AD literature-based pasteurisation is most likely to assure the safety of the digestate. The information generated from this model can inform policy-makers regarding the optimal M-AD process parameters necessary to maximise the inactivation of microorganisms, ensuring adverse environmental impact is minimised, and public health is protected.

Hydrodynamic analysis of full-scale in-situ biogas upgrading in manure digesters.The addition of hydrogen to anaerobic digesters is an emerging technique for the sustainable upgrading of biogas to biomethane with renewable electricity. However, it is critically dependent on the effective gas-liquid transfer of hydrogen, which is a sparingly soluble gas. Very little is known about the impact of liquid and gas flow and bubble size on gas-liquid transfer during H injection in full-scale anaerobic digesters. A computational fluid dynamic model was developed using a two-fluid approach for non-Newtonian liquid in the open-source computational fluid dynamics (CFD) platform, OpenFOAM. The newly developed model was validated against published experimental data-sets of a gas-mixed, laboratory-scale anaerobic digester, with good agreement between the numerical and experimental velocity fields. The hydrodynamics of the full-scale in-situ biomethanation system using venturi ejectors for H injection was then simulated to investigate gas-liquid dynamics, including gas-liquid mass transfer, at different operational conditions. Gas-liquid mixing is mainly controlled by the gas-plumes interaction, which promotes turbulence at the interaction zone, resulting in increasing gas bubbles mixing with the liquid and the gas-liquid interfacial area. However, beyond the plume interaction zone, the digester had flow short-circuiting and inactive zones. It was found that, due to this short-circuiting behaviour, an increase in gas flow-rate may not be an effective option in reducing inactive zones, although it can increase the gas-liquid interfacial area. Comparative analysis of the impact of gas flow and bubble size indicated that gas flow had a linear effect on both kLa and gas holdup, but that bubble size had a non-linear impact, with higher kLa values achieved at bubble sizes less than 2 mm. Comparison against measured data in the same system indicated the predicted kLa values were at the same level as measured kLa, at a bubble size of 2 mm.

Impact of biochar supported nano zero-valent iron on anaerobic co-digestion of sewage sludge and food waste: Methane production, performance stability and microbial community structure.This work evaluates the effects of biochar supported nano zero-valent iron (nZVI-BC) on anaerobic co-digestion (co-AD) of sewage sludge and food waste. Kinetic model analysis suggested that nZVI-BC addition significantly increased the methane production potential (R) and daily methane production rate (G) by 42.87% and 49.87%, while the raw biochar only increased R and G by 5.11% and 6.73%, respectively. Supplementation of higher concentrations of nZVI-BC was not preferable as inhibition of methane productivity was appeared. nZVI-BC addition remarkably improved organics degradation efficiency, as the reduction rate of TCOD, VSS and TSS were increased by 34.93%, 11.44% and 13.96%, respectively. The microbial analysis demonstrated that nZVI-BC facilitated the growth of hydrogentrophic methanogens, while acetotrophic methanogens which can only use acetate as electron donor were restrained. The study demonstrated nZVI-BC can effectively strengthen methanogenesis mainly through the enhancement of DIET between bacteria and methanogens, and the enrichment of hydrogenotrophic methanogens.

Enhanced biogas production from anaerobic digestion of wastewater from the fruit juice industry by sonolysis: experiments and modelling.The aim of this study is to investigate the use of ultrasound pretreatment as potential technique to solubilize organic matter and fermentation of fruit juice effluents in anaerobic batch reactor. The efficacy of ultrasound pretreatment has been assessed at low frequency of 20 kHz and at different sonication times (20, 40 and 60 min). Compared with control, the amount of biogas produced increased by 47, 57 and 60% for sonication times of 20, 40 and 60 min, respectively. Methane content of the produced biogas was about 59% in the control and 64% in the case of effluent subjected to ultrasonication for 60 min. After 20 days of anaerobic digestion of the fruit juice effluents, the efficiency of chemical oxygen demand (COD) increased by 9, 31 and 35% with respect to control for sonication times of 20, 40 and 60 min, respectively, corresponding to total sugars uptake efficiency of about 35, 51 and 54%, respectively. The modified Gompertz equation was used to describe the cumulative biogas production. A good agreement was found between simulated and experimental data.

Evaluation and modelling of methane production from corn stover pretreated with various physicochemical techniques.Lignocellulosic by-products from agricultural crops represent an important raw material for anaerobic digestion and clean renewable, which is a key component of the circular economy. Lignocellulose is recalcitrant to biodegradation and pretreatments are required to increase methane yield during anaerobic digestion. In this work, the efficacy of different physicochemical pretreatments was compared using corn stover biomass as substrate. Anaerobic digestion of untreated and pretreated corn stover was performed in batch mode at mesophilic temperature (38°C) and organic matter solubilization of pretreated substrates was also investigated. The highest organic matter solubilization occurred in autoclave pretreatment (soluble chemical oxygen demand = 5630 ± 42 mg O L). However, the highest methane yield was obtained using alkaline pretreatment (367 ± 35 mL CH g VS). Alkaline pretreatment increased methane yield by 43.3% compared to untreated control (256 ± 15 mL CH g VS). Two mathematical models (i.e. first-order kinetics and transfer function) were utilized to fit the experimental data with the aim of assessing anaerobic biodegradation and to obtain the kinetic constants in all cases studied. Both models adequately fit the experimental results. The kinetic constant, , of the first-order model increased by 92.8% when stover was pretreated with sulphuric acid compared with control. The transfer function model revealed that the maximum methane production rate, , was obtained for the sulphuric acid treatment, which was 63.5% higher compared to control.

Evaluation of methane production from the anaerobic co-digestion of manure of guinea pig with lignocellulosic Andean residues.The objective of this research was to evaluate anaerobic co-digestion of guinea pig manure (GP) with Andean agricultural residues such as amaranth (AM), quinoa (QU) and wheat (TR) in batch biodigesters under mesophilic conditions (37 C) for 40 days. As microbial inoculum, sewage treatment sludge was used in two inoculum/substrate ratios (ISR of 1 and 2). In terms of methane production, the best results occurred in treatments containing AM and QU as co-substrate and an ISR of 2. Thus, the highest methane production yield in the GP:AM biodigesters (25:75) and GP:QU (25:75) with 341.86 mlCH/g VS added and 341.05 mlCH/g VS added, respectively. On the other hand, the results showed that methane production with an ISR of 2 generated higher yields for guinea pig waste and the methane fraction of the biogas generated was in a range from 57 to 69%. Methane production kinetics from these raw materials was studied using five kinetic models: modified Gompertz, logistic equation, transfer, cone and Richards. The cone model adjusted best to the experimental values ​​with those observed with r of 0.999 and RMSE of 1.16 mlCH/g VS added. Finally, the highest biodegradability (experimental yield/theoretical yield) was obtained in the GP-AM biodigesters (25:75) with 67.92%.

Enhancing biogas production of anaerobic co-digestion of industrial waste and municipal sewage sludge with mechanical, chemical, thermal, and hybrid pretreatment.This study presents the effect of mechanical, chemical, thermal, and hybrid pretreatment on anaerobic digestion of fruit-juice industrial waste (FW) co-digested with municipal sewage sludge (MSS). The pretreatment of the substrates with ultrasonication, microwave, weak alkali-acid caused an increase in cumulative biogas production of approximately 20.9, 14.9, 8.1, and 5.2%, respectively. Beside this, thermal and strong acid-alkali pretreatment reduced biogas production. The highest cumulative biogas and methane yield was increased with hybrid pretreatment which contains ultrasonication (US) and alkali (AL) pretreatment by 36% and 49%, respectively. Also, compared to untreated mixture, the soluble COD, carbohydrate, and protein removal efficiencies were increased from 42.6% to 65.6%, 65.1% to 86.6%, and 17.3% to 62.4%, respectively for US-AL pretreatment. The kinetic parameters of cumulative biogas production for the selected reactors were further estimated with Monod, Cone, and Transference Function models.

Semi-continuous anaerobic digestion of secondary sludge with free ammonia pretreatment: Focusing on volatile solids destruction, dewaterability, pathogen removal and its implications.Our previous work has reported the pretreatment of secondary sludge with free ammonia (NH, FA) enhanced the methane production in batch biochemical methane potential tests. However, the batch biochemical methane potential test could only provide conservative results compared to continuous/semi-continuous anaerobic digestion. Also, the impacts of FA pretreatment on the key anaerobic digestion parameters, including volatile solids (VS) destruction, sludge dewaterability and pathogen removal, are still unknown. This study for the first time investigated these impacts using semi-continuous anaerobic digestion systems for 130 days. Pretreatment of secondary sludge for 24 h at an FA concentration of 560 mg NH-N/L improved VS destruction by 26.4% (from 22.0 to 27.8%), supported by a similar increase of 28.6% in methane production (from 126.7 to 162.9 ml CH4/g VS). Model based analysis revealed that FA pretreatment improved the sludge degradability extent, which may be the reason for the enhanced VS destruction. Equally importantly, the dewaterability of the digested sludge with FA pretreatment was also enhanced by 9.2% (from 12.0 to 13.1% in solids content of the dewatered digested sludge), which could be partly attributed to the increased zeta potential from -16.7 to -14.5 mV. Anaerobic digestion with FA pretreatment enhanced the removals of Fecal Coliform and E. Coli by 1.3 and 1.4 log MPN/g TS (MPN: Most Probable Number; TS: Total Solids), indicating FA pretreatment was effective in enhancing pathogen removal. With inorganic solids representing 21% of the sludge used, the volume of dewatered sludge to be disposed of was reduced by 14.5% via FA pretreatment. This will substantially decrease the cost as evaluated by economic analysis. In brief, this study provides a promising strategy to enhance sludge reduction in anaerobic digestion and is of great significance in promoting the application of FA pretreatment strategy in the real world.

Sewage-water treatment with bio-energy production and carbon capture and storage.Typical large-scale sewage-water treatments consume energy, occupy space and are unprofitable. This work evaluates a conceivable two-staged sewage-water treatment at 40,000 m/d of sewage-water with sewage-sludge (totaling 10kg/m) that becomes a profitable bioenergy producer exporting reusable water and electricity, while promoting carbon capture. The first stage comprises microbial anaerobic digesters reducing the chemical oxygen demand (COD) by 95% and producing 60%mol methane biogas. The effluent waters enter the subsequent aerobic stage comprising microbial air-fed digesters that extend COD reduction to 99.7%. To simulate the process, up-to-date anaerobic/aerobic digester models were implemented. A biogas-combined-cycle power plant with/without post-combustion carbon capture is designed to match the biogas production, supplying electricity to the process and to the grid. Results comprehend electricity exportation of 13.21 MW (7.92 kWh/t) with -9.957t/h of negative carbon emission (-0.6 kg/kg). The biogas-combined-cycle without carbon capture achieves 21.08 MW of power exportation, while a 37.3% energy penalty arises if carbon capture is implemented. Configurations with/without carbon capture reach feasibility at 125 USD/MWh of electricity price, with respective net present values of 6.86 and 85.07 MMUSD and respective payback-times of 39 and 12 years. These results demonstrate that large-scale sewage-water treatment coupled to biogas-fired combined-cycles and carbon capture can achieve economically feasible bioenergy production with negative carbon emissions.

Effects of severe pretreatment conditions and lignocellulose-derived furan byproducts on anaerobic digestion of dairy manure.Dairy manure subjected to four pretreatments (acid, alkaline, sulfite (SPORL), alkaline hydrogen peroxide (AHP)) at high chemical dosages (termed severe conditions) were evaluated for enhancements in biogas production and inhibitory effects due to concomitant generation of furan byproducts. All four pretreatments enhanced solubilization of carbohydrates, but only alkaline and AHP resulted in higher methane yield (356 and 333 mL/g-VS, respectively) relative to moderate pretreatment conditions (311 and 261 mL/g-VS, respectively). Methane yield of severe-SPORL pretreatment (233 mL/g-VS) was greater than that of untreated manure (116 mL/g-VS), but lower than that of moderate-SPORL (353 mL/g-VS). Severe-acid pretreatment showed early termination in biogas production likely due to inhibitory effects of furfural and 5-hydroxymethyl furfural. Both experimental data and kinetic modeling indicated that severe-acid pretreatment led to degradation of carbohydrates to furfural, which reduced biogas production due to direct toxicity rather than competitive inhibitory effects. Pretreatment conditions (severity and byproduct levels) for dairy manure biomass may be optimized based on the current findings.

Unravelling the impacts of perfluorooctanoic acid on anaerobic sludge digestion process.Perfluorooctanoic acid (PFOA) is a type of persistent organic pollutant that has been detected in wastewater treatment systems, subsequently entering the waste activated sludge (WAS) anaerobic digesters. Nevertheless, how PFOA affects the anaerobic digestion of WAS has never been reported till now. In this study, a series of batch digesters were set up to assess the performance of the anaerobic sludge digestion processes with exposures to different levels of PFOA. Experimental results revealed that the increased PFOA concentration (3-60 μg/g-TS) caused the 11.1-19.2% decrease in methane production than the control. Correspondingly, the relative abundances of several key microbes related to acidification (e.g., Longilinea sp.) and methanation (e.g., Methanosaeta sp.) decreased when exposed to PFOA, as demonstrated by microbial community analysis. Further investigations based on modelling and intermediate metabolites analysis confirmed the inhibition of acidification and methanation caused by PFOA, thus decreasing the methane production potential of WAS in anaerobic digestion.

Enhanced anaerobic digestion of swine manure via a coupled microbial electrolysis cell.Microbial electrolysis cell coupled anaerobic digestion (MEC-AD) is a new technology in energy recovery and waste treatment, which could be used to recycle swine manure. Here, different applied voltage effects were studied using MEC-AD with swine manure as a substrate. The maximum cumulative biogas and methane yields, both occurring with 0.9 V, were 547.3 mL/g total solid (TS) and 347.7 mL/g TS, respectively. The increased energy can counterbalance the electrical input. First order, logistic, gompertz, and back-propagation artificial neural network (BP-ANN) models were used to study cumulative biogas and methane yields. The BP-ANN model was superior to the other three models. The maximum degradation rate of hemicellulose, cellulose, and lignin was 60.97%, 48.59%, and 31.59% at 0.9 V, respectively. The BP-ANN model establishes a model for cumulative biogas and methane yields using MEC-AD. Thus, MEC-AD enhanced biogas and methane production and accelerated substrate degradation at a suitable voltage.

Disordered mesoporous carbon activated peroxydisulfate pretreatment facilitates disintegration of extracellular polymeric substances and anaerobic bioconversion of waste activated sludge.The potential of disordered mesoporous carbon (DMC) as catalyst of peroxydisulfate (PDS) to improve sludge solubilization and methane production was investigated. Results showed that DMC activated PDS (DMC/PDS) to produce sulfate radicals (SO), facilitating cells rupture and sludge matrix dissociation by degrading the carbonyl and amide groups in organic biopolymers (especially proteins, polysaccharides and humus). At the optimal DMC/PDS dosage of 0.04/1.2 g-mmol/g-VS, SCOD was increased from initial 294.0 to 681.5 mg/L, with the methane production rate of 12.6 mL/g-VS/day. Moreover, DMC could serve as electron mediator to accelerate electron transfer of microorganisms, building a more robust anaerobic metabolic environment. Modelling analysis further demonstrated the crucial role of DMC/PDS pretreatment in biological degradation and methane productivity. This study indicated that DMC/PDS pretreatment can prominently enhance the release of soluble substances and methane production, aiding the utilization of PDS oxidation technology for improving anaerobic bioconversion of sludge.

Pretreatment, Anaerobic Codigestion, or Both? Which Is More Suitable for the Enhancement of Methane Production from Agricultural Waste?Pretreatment and codigestion are proven to be effective strategies for the enhancement of the anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic residues. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the effects of pretreatment and codigestion on methane production and the hydrolysis rate in the anaerobic digestion of agricultural wastes (AWs). Thermal and different thermochemical pretreatments were applied on AWs. Sewage sludge (SS) was selected as a cosubstrate. Biochemical methane potential tests were performed by mixing SS with raw and pretreated AWs at different mixing ratios. Hydrolysis rates were estimated by the best fit obtained with the first-order kinetic model. As a result of the experimental and kinetic studies, the best strategy was determined to be thermochemical pretreatment with sodium hydroxide (NaOH). This strategy resulted in a maximum enhancement in the anaerobic digestion of AWs, a 56% increase in methane production, an 81.90% increase in the hydrolysis rate and a 79.63% decrease in the technical digestion time compared to raw AWs. On the other hand, anaerobic codigestion (AcoD) with SS was determined to be ineffective when it came to the enhancement of methane production and the hydrolysis rate. The most suitable mixing ratio was determined to be 80:20 (Aws/SS) for the AcoD of the studied AWs with SS in order to obtain the highest possible methane production without any antagonistic effect.

On the effect of the inlet configuration for anaerobic digester mixing.Sludge recirculation mixing in anaerobic digesters is essential for the stable operation of the digestion process. While often neglected, the configuration of the sludge inlet has a substantial influence on the efficiency of the mixing process. The fluid is either injected directly into the enclosed fluid domain or splashes onto the free surface of the slurry flow. In this paper, the aim was to investigate the effect of the inlet configuration by means of computational fluid dynamics-using ANSYS Fluent. Single-phase and multi-phase models are applied for a submerged and splashing inlet, respectively. To reduce the high computational demand, we also develop surrogate single-phase models for the splashing inlet. The digester mixing is analyzed by comparing velocity contours, velocity profiles, mixing time and dead volume. The non-Newtonian characteristics of the sludge is considered, and a [Formula: see text] model is employed for obtaining turbulence closure. Our method is validated by means of a previous study on the same geometry. Applying a submerged inlet configuration, the resulting dead volume in the tank is estimated around 80 times lower than for the case of a splashing inlet. Additionally, by emulating the multi-phase model for splashing inlet configurations with a single-phase one, the simulation clock time reduced to 15%.

Responses of anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge to long-term stress of benzalkonium chlorides: Insights to extracellular polymeric substances and microbial communities.Quaternary ammonium compounds have gained widespread attention due to their extensive enrichment in waste activated sludge (WAS) and potentially adverse effect to anaerobes. This study selected benzalkonium chlorides (BACs) as model to reveal the responses of anaerobic digestion of WAS to long-term stress of BACs. Results showed that the solubilization enhancement of WAS contributed by BACs was the acceleration of cell lysis, rather than the disruption of extracellular polymeric substances, and the accumulation improvement of short chain fatty acids (SCFAs) attributed to hydrolysis improvement and methanogenesis inhibition at either medium -or high level of BACs. In addition, a low level had no significant effect on the production of methane compared to control, with averages of 0.059 and 0.055 m/(m·d), respectively, whereas a medium level reduced methane production to 20% of control, and a high level almost completely inhibited methanogenesis. Correspondingly, BACs could shift microbial communities related to SCFAs and methane productions. For the bacterial community, a high level of BACs led to abundance reductions of Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, Acidobacteria and Chloroflexi, but Synergistetes was increased to 10.5%, which was almost not detected either in control or at a low level of BACs. And for dominant archaeal community, they tended to be shifted from acetotrophic to hydrogenotrophic methanogens with BACs increasing from low to high level. These findings provided some new insights for the role of BACs in anaerobic digestion, as well as resource recovery from WAS.

Simultaneous evaluation of the effect of mixing efficiency on power consumption and methane production in an anaerobic digester with different wastewaters.This study simultaneously examines the effect of mixing rate on power consumption and methane production in a stirrer anaerobic reactor. The numerical simulation is carried out using the finite volume approach and validated against available experimental data. The methane production rate is determined using governing equations in the anaerobic digestion (AD) process. The results showed that a 60% increase in the mixing rate of the system (from 50% to 80%) in the wastewater with concentration of 14,549 (mgl) increased the methane production rate by about 35% and increased the power consumption of the system by about 13 times. Among the 144 cases studied, the best stirrer model is figured out as the optimal model by applying an index of performance coefficient and also this model is investigated with scale-up criteria in larger sizes. A novel equation for evaluating the power production value is suggested in real digesters.

Anaerobic digestion of chicken manure: Sequences of chemical structures in dissolved organic matter and its effect on acetic acid production.The use of chicken manure (CM) leads to serious environmental pollution due to the existence of bacteria and insect pests. Anaerobic digestion (AD) is one of the important technologies of CM treatment. However, methane production is limited by the accumulation of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) from AD. Therefore, the study explored the possible formation mechanism of acetic acid by understanding the effect of sequences of chemical structure variation in DOM on acetic acid production. The chemical structures of DOM were observed. The tyrosine-like substances (C1, 53.53-29.99%) and humic-like substances (C3, 18.38-5.96%) showed a tendency to decrease. Tryptophan-like substances (C2, 28.09-64.04%) showed the increasing trend. The results indicated that C2 was unwilling to biodegrade. In DOM, the order of biodegradability was C2< C1< C3. AD resulted in the enrichment of N-H in-plane (0-22.75%) and COO- stretch (7.53-18.57%) and the loss of O-H stretch (19.39-13.72%), C-H stretch (4.56%-0), CC stretch (12.04-9.61%) and C-O stretch (10.02-5.03%). Two-dimensional correlation spectroscopy is applied to investigate the sequences of chemical structures in DOM, the order is as follows: CC stretch > COO- stretch > N-H in-plane > C-O stretch. The result confirmed that protein was rapidly decomposed and utilized, which would result in the increase of microorganism metabolism and hydrolysis rate, polysaccharide was hydrolyzed to form phenol and carboxylic acid. Four possible pathways were identified in AD by the structural equation model. C1and hydroxyl can promote propionic and butyric acid formation by the pathway of valeric or iso-butyric acid production and further effected acetic acid production. This study proposed the possible formative mechanisms of acetic acid according to sequences of chemical structures variation in DOM during AD, which can provide the theoretical basis for directional regulating the conversion of different chemical structures of DOM into acetic acid in AD.

Evaluating the biomethane potential from the anaerobic co-digestion of palm oil mill effluent, food waste, and sewage sludge in Malaysia.The ever-increasing organic waste generation in Malaysia is a significant contributor to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. However, organic wastes can be utilized to produce biogas by anaerobic digestion, which is a promising option for both energy and material recovery from organic wastes with high moisture content. Therefore, this study was formulated to investigate the feasibility of anaerobic co-digestion of three types of organic wastes generated in significantly huge quantities in Malaysia, namely palm oil mill effluent (POME), food waste (FW), and sewage sludge (SWS). The biomethane potential (BMP) test was used to evaluate the biomethane potential from these organic wastes under mesophilic conditions to establish a stable and balanced microbial community, which may lack in mono-digestion, to improve biogas production. Comparative performance was made at different food to microorganism (F/M) ratios to investigate methane production in three groups of assays, namely A, B, and C. In groups A and B, the effect of F/M ratio variation on methane production was investigated, while in group C, the effect of varying the co-substrate mixture on methane yield was examined. The findings showed that the highest methane yields achieved for mono-digestion of POME and SWS in group A were 164.44 mL-CH/g-COD and 65.34 mL-CH/g-COD, respectively, at an F/M ratio of 0.8 and 197.90 mL-CH/g-COD for FW in group B at an F/M ratio of 0.5. In addition, the highest methane yield achieved from the anaerobic co-digestion was at 151.47 mL-CH/g-COD from the co-digestion of the POME and SWS (50:50) at an F/M ratio of 1.7 in group A. Both AD and AcoD were tested to fit into two kinetic models: the modified Gompertz and the transfer function models. The results showed that the modified Gompertz model had a better fit and was more adjusted to the experimental results for both AD and AcoD. The importance of this research lies in the economics of anaerobically co-digesting these abundance feedstocks and the variations in their characteristics which were found to increase their methane yield and process efficiency in anaerobic co-digestion.

The origin of waste activated sludge affects the enhancement of anaerobic digestion by free nitrous acid pre-treatment.Anaerobic digestion is a common stabilization method for treating primary sludge (PS) and waste activated sludge (WAS). However, its application is often limited by the degradation of WAS. Recent studies have demonstrated FNA to be an effective pre-treatment for enhancing WAS degradability, while having limited effect on PS degradability. WAS characteristics are impacted by wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) configuration and this study is the first to compare the effectiveness of FNA pre-treatment on WAS from WWTP with and without primary treatment. In this study, WAS samples were collected from four full-scale WWTPs with or without primary treatment. Sludge characterization, biomethane potential tests and mathematical modeling were conducted to assess the impacts of FNA pre-treatment on anaerobic digestion. The results showed that FNA pre-treatment was consistently effective for WAS from different WWTPs, while the extent of enhancement varied between WWTPs. For WAS from WWTPs without primary treatment, FNA pretreatment increased the rate of hydrolysis by 54-66% compared to 22-33% increase for WAS without primary treatment. In contrast, WAS from WWTPs with primary treatment experienced greater increases in methane potential (22-24%) compared to WAS from WWTPs without primary treatment (14-16%). These variances could be associated with primary treatment impacting the wastewater COD/N ratio and thus portion of extracellular polymetric substances (EPS) and cells in WAS. FNA pre-treatment targets the destruction of polymetric substances and cells, therefore WAS with a higher proportion of cells (i.e., WAS with primary treatment) experienced greater improvements in methane yield. Similarly, greater improvements in hydrolysis rate were observed for WAS from WWTP without primary sedimentation which contain higher proportions of large EPS molecules. Despite its consistent effectiveness on WAS samples, FNA pre-treatment was ineffective for improving the digestibility of high-rate activated sludge (HRAS).

Acidic Microenvironment Aggravates the Severity of Hepatic Ischemia/Reperfusion Injury by Modulating M1-Polarization Through Regulating PPAR-γ Signal.Hepatic injury induced by ischemia and reperfusion (HIRI) is a major clinical problem after liver resection or transplantation. The polarization of macrophages plays an important role in regulating the severity of hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury. Recent evidence had indicated that the ischemia induces an acidic microenvironment by causing increased anaerobic glycolysis and accumulation of lactic acid. We hypothesize that the acidic microenvironment might cause the imbalance of intrahepatic immunity which aggravated HIRI. The hepatic ischemia/reperfusion injury model was established to investigate the effect of the acidic microenvironment to liver injury. Liposomes were used to deplete macrophages . Macrophages were cultured under low pH conditions to analyze the polarization of macrophages . Activation of the PPAR-γ signal was determined by Western blot. PPAR-γ agonist GW1929 was administrated to functionally test the role of PPAR-γ in regulating macrophage-mediated effects in the acidic microenvironment during HIRI. We demonstrate that acidic microenvironment aggravated HIRI while NaHCO reduced liver injury through neutralizing the acid, besides, liposome abolished the protective ability of NaHCO through depleting the macrophages. In vivo and vitro experiment showed that acidic microenvironment markedly promoted M1 polarization but inhibited M2 polarization of macrophage. Furthermore, the mechanistic study proved that the PPAR-γ signal was suppressed during the polarization of macrophages under pH = 6.5 culture media. The addition of PPAR-γ agonist GW1929 inhibited M1 polarization under acidic environment and reduced HIRI. Our results indicate that acidic microenvironment is a key regulator in HIRI which promoted M1 polarization of macrophages through regulating PPAR-γ. Conversely, PPAR-γ activation reduced liver injury, which provides a novel therapeutic concept to prevent HIRI.

Effects of different amino acids and their configurations on methane yield and biotransformation of intermediate metabolites during anaerobic digestion.Anaerobic digestion (AD) comprises a series of biochemical reactions, with methane as one of the target products. Amino acids (AAs) are important molecular and primary intermediate products when protein is the main component of organic waste/wastewater. The L (levorotatory, left-handed)-configuration is natural for AAs, while D (dextrorotatory, right-handed) -AAs also widely exist in the natural environment and can be generated by racemization. However, the effects and underlying mechanisms of natural AAs and their enantiomers on the methane yield and the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. In this study, the effects of certain widespread L-AAs and their enantiomers on two-stage AD and the mechanisms therein were investigated. The AAs enantiomers showed variable or even opposite effects on different processes. The methane yield from a model monosaccharide (glucose) decreased by 57% with D-leucine addition. The butyrate generation and the methane yield from propionate were sensitive to the AA configuration and were inhibited by D-leucine by 80% and 61.8%, respectively, with D-leucine addition, while the volatile fatty acids concentration was slightly increased with the addition of L-leucine. The related mechanisms were further investigated in terms of key enzymes and microbial communities. The addition of D-Leucine decreased acetic acid production from homoacetogens by 30.2% due to the inhibition of key enzymes involved in hydrogen generation and consumption. The transform of butyryl CoA to butyryl phosphate was the rate-limiting step, with the related enzyme (phosphotransbutylase) was inhibited by D-leucine. Furthermore, the bacteria related to butyric acid generation and organic matter degradation were inhibited by D-leucine, while the methanogenic archaea remained stable irrespective of leucine addition. The effect of D-AAs on microorganisms is related to the type of sludge. In this study, the methanogenetic seed sludge was granular and did not dissociate after treatment; however, the D-AAs could trigger biofilm disassembly and reduce the stability of the sludge floc. The study provides a novel method for regulating AD by adding specific AAs with L or D configuration.

Improving methane production from algal sludge anaerobic fermentation by peroxydisulfate (PDS) pretreatment.This study investigated the potential of improving methane production from algal sludge anaerobic digestion by peroxydisulfate (PDS) pretreatment. The results show that with PDS dosage at 0.02 g PDS/g algal sludge TSS, PDS added system has highest accumulative methane production after 60 days fermentation. The accumulative methane production was 1.08, 1.15, 1.14, 1.13, 1.08, 0.76, and 0.15 times as compared with control, at 0.01, 0.02, 0.05, 0.1, 0.2, 0.5, and 1 g PDS/g algal sludge TSS added, respectively. The SCOD in the system was keep increasing with the increment of PDS dosage after 120 min pretreatment. The algal sludge dewatering rate was increased with adding of PDS as pretreatment. The addition of PDS has inhibited the activities of microbes involved in digestion, while the short chain fatty acids production was improved after 3 days digestion. One-substrate model can be used to simulate the methane yield. The hydrolysis rate was decreased after dosing with PDS, while highest actual and predicted accumulative methane yield was occurred at 0.02 g PDS/g algal sludge TSS. Proteobacteria has higher percentage when the PDS was not higher than 0.1 g PDS/g algal sludge TSS, Acetothermia has higher percentage at 0.01 g PDS/g algal sludge TSS. The microcystin-LR (MC-LR) in algal sludge was largely removed after digestion, including the intracellular MC-LR. The higher PDS dosage could cause heavy metal release from algae cell to the digestate during fermentation. The addition of PDS to algal sludge can improve the accumulative methane production and mitigate microcystin concentration.

®
Campylobacter jejuni
Treatment with the Probiotic Product Aviguard Alleviates Inflammatory Responses during -Induced Acute Enterocolitis in Mice.Prevalences of  infections are progressively rising globally. Given that probiotic feed additives, such as the commercial product Aviguard, have been shown to be effective in reducing enteropathogens, such as , in vertebrates, including livestock, we assessed potential anti-pathogenic and immune-modulatory properties of Aviguard during acute -induced murine enterocolitis. Therefore, microbiota-depleted IL-10 mice were infected with  strain 81-176 by gavage and orally treated with Aviguard or placebo from day 2 to 4 post-infection. The applied probiotic bacteria could be rescued from the intestinal tract of treated mice, but with lower obligate anaerobic bacterial counts in -infected as compared to non-infected mice. Whereas comparable gastrointestinal pathogen loads could be detected in both groups until day 6 post-infection, Aviguard treatment resulted in improved clinical outcome and attenuated apoptotic cell responses in infected large intestines during acute campylobacteriosis. Furthermore, less distinct pro-inflammatory immune responses could be observed not only in the intestinal tract, but also in extra-intestinal compartments on day 6 post-infection. In conclusion, we show here for the first time that Aviguard exerts potent disease-alleviating effects in acute -induced murine enterocolitis and might be a promising probiotic treatment option for severe campylobacteriosis in humans.

Timing of Tributyrin Supplementation Differentially Modulates Gastrointestinal Inflammation and Gut Microbial Recolonization Following Murine Ileocecal Resection.Gastrointestinal surgery imparts dramatic and lasting imbalances, or dysbiosis, to the composition of finely tuned microbial ecosystems. The aim of the present study was to use a mouse ileocecal resection (ICR) model to determine if tributyrin (TBT) supplementation could prevent the onset of microbial dysbiosis or alternatively enhance the recovery of the gut microbiota and reduce gastrointestinal inflammation.
Male wild-type (129 s1/SvlmJ) mice aged 8-15 weeks were separated into single cages and randomized 1:1:1:1 to each of the four experimental groups: control (CTR), preoperative TBT supplementation (PRE), postoperative TBT supplementation (POS), and combined pre- and postoperative supplementation (TOT). ICR was performed one week from baseline assessment with mice assessed at 1, 2, 3, and 4 weeks postoperatively. Primary outcomes included evaluating changes to gut microbial communities occurring from ICR to 4 weeks.
A total of 34 mice that underwent ICR (CTR  = 9; PRE  = 10; POS  = 9; TOT  = 6) and reached the primary endpoint were included in the analysis. Postoperative TBT supplementation was associated with an increased recolonization and abundance of anaerobic taxa including  and . The microbial recolonization of PRE mice was characterized by a bloom of aerotolerant organisms including  and  PRE mice had a trend towards decreased ileal inflammation as evidenced by decreased levels of IL-1β ( = 0.09), IL-6 ( = 0.03), and TNF-α ( < 0.05) compared with mice receiving TBT postoperatively. In contrast, POS mice had trends towards reduced colonic inflammation demonstrated by decreased levels of IL-6 ( = 0.07) and TNF-α ( = 0.07). These changes occurred in the absence of changes to fecal short-chain fatty acid concentrations or histologic injury scoring.
Taken together, the results of our work demonstrate that the timing of tributyrin supplementation differentially modulates gastrointestinal inflammation and gut microbial recolonization following murine ICR.

Anaerobic Biodegradation of Biodiesel Industry Wastewater in Mesophilic and Thermophilic Fluidized Bed Reactors: Enhancing Treatment and Methane Recovery.In the past few years, the extraction of value-added compounds from the anaerobic digestion of glycerol has been an option to add value to this waste because biodiesel production is increasing worldwide. The evolution of research on glycerol valorization by anaerobic digestion has reached the use of high-rate reactors. However, no study has evaluated glycerol digestion in an anaerobic fluidized bed reactor (AFBR), a configuration with potential advantages in methane production. Still, the best operating temperature for high-rate glycerol digestion remains unclear. To clarify these gaps, the present study aimed to compare glycerol digestion in mesophilic AFBR (30 °C) and thermophilic AFBR (55 °C). In both reactors, glycerol concentration was increased from 1.0 to 7.0 g L at a fixed hydraulic retention time of 24 h, resulting in an increase at the organic loading rate from 1.2 to 7.6 kg COD m day. Thermophilic digestion of glycerol achieved superior removals of organic matter (67.7-94.2%) and methane yield (330.8 mL CH g COD) than the mesophilic digestion (48.6-93.0% and 266.6 mL CH g COD). Additionally, the application of the kinetic model of substrate utilization (modified Stover-Kincannon model) indicated a higher substrate utilization coefficient in the thermophilic AFBR (23.09 g L day) than the mesophilic AFBR (7.14 g L day). Therefore, the application of glycerol concentrations higher than 7.0 g L in thermophilic AFBR should be further investigated. Also, given only operational results, the application of the AFBR in the two-stage anaerobic digestion of glycerol is recommended.

Anaerobic digestion beyond biogas.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a matured technology for waste (water) remediation/stabilization and bioenergy generation in the form of biogas. AD technology has several inherent benefits ranging from generating renewable energy, remediating waste (water), and reducing greenhouse gas emission to improving health/hygiene and the overall socio-economic status of rural communities in developing nations. In recent years, there has been a paradigm shift in applications of AD technology beyond biogas. This special issue (SI) entitled, "Anaerobic Digestion Beyond Biogas (ADBB-2021)," was conceptualized to incorporate some of the recent advances in AD in which the emphasis is beyond biogas, such as anaerobic biorefinery, chain elongation, treatment of micropollutants, toxicity and system stability, digestate as biofertilizer, bio-electrochemical systems, innovative bioreactors, carbon sequestration, biogas upgrading, microbiomes, waste (water) remediation, residues/waste pre-treatment, promoter addition, and modeling, process control, and automation, among others. This VSI: ADBB-2021 contains 53 manuscripts (14 critical reviews and 39 research). The key findings of each manuscript are briefly summarized here, which can serve as a valuable resource for AD researchers to learn of major advances in AD technology and identify future research directions.

Black liquor increases methane production from excess pulp and paper industry sludge.The aim of the study was to use black liquor produced during the soda pulping process in a pulp and paper mill to increase methane production during pulp and paper industry sludge treatment and decrease the treatment cost. The effects of black liquor on sludge solubilization and methane production were assessed and the economic feasibility of the process was evaluated. Black liquor and NaOH were found to be equivalent in the thermochemical pretreatment process to solubilize sludge and disintegrate flocs. However, adding black liquor increased the background chemical oxygen demand and volatile fatty acid concentration and increased the amount of methane produced by approximately 7-30%. A start-up delay was emphasized by first-order kinetics model due to black liquor addition while methane production remained stable. Economic assessments of five scenarios were performed. It was found to be economically feasible to use black liquor to replace NaOH for the thermal pretreatment process. The surplus methane generated suggested that co-digestion of sludge and black liquor allows surplus bioenergy to be produced during the thermochemical pretreatment anaerobic digestion process.

Improving anaerobic digestion mass balance calculations through stoichiometry and usual substrate characterization.In recent years, anaerobic digestion (AD) of organic waste has raised as a winning strategy to produce energy and organic fertilizer. To optimize such a technology, mass balance is needed to model or simply monitor the process. This paper describes a theoretical framework allowing process indicators to be derived from estimates of organic waste elemental composition. Using a database of 128 typical feedstocks, semi-empirical equations are provided to estimate this elemental composition in case of a missing analysis. Then, a revised stoichiometric reaction of anaerobic digestion is proposed considering biomass yield and nitrogen. Biomass yield induces a more accurate estimation of the ammonia production and the volatile solids (VS) loss. The stoichiometric reaction allows the prediction of biogaz quality and mass loss and a correction factor for VS removal is proposed. The use of real case studies highlights the need to consider this correction (correction factor range: 1.01-1.2), especially for dry AD.

A simplified model for simulating anaerobic digesters: Application to valorisation of bagasse and distillery spent wash.Current anaerobic digestion (AD) design methods rely on crude empirical models or sophisticated anaerobic digestion models (like ADM1) requiring a large number of parameters which are difficult to obtain experimentally. A simplified model for simulating AD was developed in this work. The model requires knowledge of CH/CO ratio in biogas or indigestible fraction in substrate and batch biomethane potential (BMP) data for estimating three kinetic parameters (maximum specific growth rate, half velocity constant and cell death rate). Reported lab scale BMP data of sugarcane bagasse and spent wash were used to first estimate the kinetics and then to simulate corresponding largescale AD. Simulated results of specific methane yield and digester performance were consistent with available largescale AD data. The potential of the model to simulate single and multi-stage AD were illustrated. The presented approach and model will be useful for effectively valorising a variety of complex biomass substrates to biogas.

Designing microbial communities to maximize the thermodynamic driving force for the production of chemicals.Microbial communities have become a major research focus due to their importance for biogeochemical cycles, biomedicine and biotechnological applications. While some biotechnological applications, such as anaerobic digestion, make use of naturally arising microbial communities, the rational design of microbial consortia for bio-based production processes has recently gained much interest. One class of synthetic microbial consortia is based on specifically designed strains of one species. A common design principle for these consortia is based on division of labor, where the entire production pathway is divided between the different strains to reduce the metabolic burden caused by product synthesis. We first show that classical division of labor does not automatically reduce the metabolic burden when metabolic flux per biomass is analyzed. We then present ASTHERISC (Algorithmic Search of THERmodynamic advantages in Single-species Communities), a new computational approach for designing multi-strain communities of a single-species with the aim to divide a production pathway between different strains such that the thermodynamic driving force for product synthesis is maximized. ASTHERISC exploits the fact that compartmentalization of segments of a product pathway in different strains can circumvent thermodynamic bottlenecks arising when operation of one reaction requires a metabolite with high and operation of another reaction the same metabolite with low concentration. We implemented the ASTHERISC algorithm in a dedicated program package and applied it on E. coli core and genome-scale models with different settings, for example, regarding number of strains or demanded product yield. These calculations showed that, for each scenario, many target metabolites (products) exist where a multi-strain community can provide a thermodynamic advantage compared to a single strain solution. In some cases, a production with sufficiently high yield is thermodynamically only feasible with a community. In summary, the developed ASTHERISC approach provides a promising new principle for designing microbial communities for the bio-based production of chemicals.

Stabilization of anaerobic digestion of kitchen wastes using protein-rich additives: Study of process performance, kinetic modelling and energy balance.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of acidic kitchen waste (KW) streams is found to be unstable and leads to poor overall efficiency. This study assessed the effect of pongamia de-oiled cake addition on KW-AD. High acidic KW (pH: 2.00-5.00), medium acidic KW (pH: 5.00-7.00) and low alkaline KW (pH: 7.00-8.00) fed into digesters I, II and III at 10% total solids (TS) achieved biogas yields of 177.82 ± 19.30, 216.57 ± 7.42 and 280.45 ± 2.55 L/kg VS. d, respectively. Maximum synergistic effect of pongamia de-oiled cake was observed in digester I with increased methane production of 46.04% and volatile solids reduction of 11.18%. The principal component analysis and kinetic evaluation revealed that pongamia de-oiled cake addition had a positive effect on the AD parameters in all digesters. With energy efficiencies exceeded 96% in all the digesters, the study proposes the addition of protein-rich additives for KW-AD stabilization.

Exploring the combined effect of total ammonia nitrogen, pH and temperature on anaerobic digestion of chicken manure using response surface methodology and two kinetic models.Ammonia inhibition is the most challenging issue in the anaerobic digestion (AD) of nitrogen-rich substrates. Total ammonia nitrogen (TAN) concentration, temperature and pH are the main operational parameters affecting the chemical equilibrium between free ammonium nitrogen (NH; FAN) and ammonium ions (NH). However, it is still unclear how these parameters together affect digestion performance by influencing this equilibrium. To determine the effect and linkages of these parameters, a Box-Behnken design-response surface methodology (RSM), correlation analysis and two kinetic models were carried out. The results revealed that the linear effect of TAN, the interaction effect between TAN and temperature, and temperature and pH were significant, however, the quadratic effect of TAN, temperature and pH were also significant. Furthermore, TAN and temperature were positively correlated with M, k and R. Findings from this study could provide a theoretical basis to develop the way of relieving ammonia inhibition.

2 2
Methane production from acetate, formate and H/CO under high ammonia level: Modified ADM1 simulation and microbial characterization.This study evaluated the methanogenic performance of typical substrates (acetate, formate, H/CO, and glucose) under low and high ammonia levels and the Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 (ADM1) was extended and modified for better simulation and understanding of the process. Formate-utilizing and hydrogen-utilizing methanogenesis showed stronger ammonia resistance than acetate-utilizing methanogenesis (13-23% vs. 34% decrease in methane production (MP)). Model extension, based on foundational experiments fed with three typical precursors (R > 0.92), was then validated with glucose degradation experiments, and satisfactory predictions of MP and total volatile fatty acids were obtained (R > 0.91). Based on the modified ADM1, the carbon fluxes of glucose degradation were determined, and formate-utilizing methanogenesis showed its importance with a 28-34% contribution of the total methanation, becoming the dominant pathway under high ammonia level. Formate-utilizing methanogenesis also had a thermodynamic advantage among the three pathways. 16S rRNA sequencing suggested a homology between the hydrogen-utilizing and formate-utilizing methanogens. Methanobacterium and Methanobrevibacter were found to be key methanogens, and their enrichment under high ammonia level confirmed the stronger ammonia tolerance of formate-utilizing and hydrogen-utilizing methanogenesis. The microbial characterization and modified ADM1 simulations supported each other.

The Keystone commensal bacterium Christensenella minuta DSM 22607 displays anti-inflammatory properties both in vitro and in vivo.Christensenellaceae is a family of subdominant commensal bacteria found in humans. It is thought to play an important role in gut health by maintaining microbial symbiosis. Indeed, these bacteria occur at significantly lower levels or are absent in individuals suffering from inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs). Here, we explored if type species Christensenella minuta (strain: DSM 22607) could have the potential to help treat IBDs. We assessed key properties displayed by the bacterium using a combination of in vitro and in vivo assays. We found that while C. minuta is a strict anaerobe, it is also oxygen tolerant. Additionally, we observed that the species produces high levels of acetate and moderate levels of butyrate. We performed deep phenotyping using Biolog microarrays. Using human intestinal cell lines, we discovered that C. minuta demonstrated strong anti-inflammatory activity, resulting in reduced levels of proinflammatory IL-8 cytokines via the inhibition of the NF-κB signaling pathway. Furthermore, C. minuta protected intestinal epithelial integrity in vitro. Finally, in two distinct animal models of acute colitis, C. minuta prevented intestinal damage, reduced colonic inflammation, and promoted mucosal healing. Together, these results indicate that C. minuta has potent immunomodulatory properties, underscoring its potential use in innovative microbiome-based IBD biotherapies.

Streptococcus thermophilus
Identification of  Genes Specifically Expressed under Simulated Human Digestive Conditions Using R-IVET Technology.Despite promising health effects, the probiotic status of  a lactic acid bacterium widely used in dairy industry, requires further documentation of its physiological status during human gastrointestinal passage. This study aimed to apply recombinant-based in vivo technology (R-IVET) to identify genes triggered in a  LMD-9 reference strain under simulated digestive conditions. First, the R-IVET chromosomal cassette and plasmid genomic library were designed to positively select activated genes. Second, recombinant clones were introduced into complementary models mimicking the human gut, the Netherlands Organization for Applied Scientific Research (TNO) gastrointestinal model imitating the human stomach and small intestine, the Caco-2 TC7 cell line as a model of intestinal epithelium, and anaerobic batch cultures of human feces as a colon model. All inserts of activated clones displayed a promoter activity that differed from one digestive condition to another. Our results also showed that  adapted its metabolism to stressful conditions found in the gastric and colonic competitive environment and modified its surface proteins during adhesion to Caco-2 TC7 cells. Activated genes were investigated in a collection of  strains showing various resistance levels to gastrointestinal stresses, a first stage in the identification of gut resistance markers and a key step in probiotic selection.

Biogas maximization using data-driven modelling with uncertainty analysis and genetic algorithm for municipal wastewater anaerobic digestion.Anaerobic digestion processes create biogases that can be useful sources of energy. The development of data-driven models of anaerobic digestion processes via operating parameters can lead to increased biogas production rates, resulting in greater energy production, through process modification and optimization. This study assessed processed and unprocessed input operating parameter variables for the development of regression models with transparent structures ('white-box' models) to: (1) estimate biogas production rates from municipal wastewater treatment plant (MWTP) anaerobic digestors; (2) compare their performances to artificial neural network (ANN) and adaptive network-based fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) models with opaque structures ('black-box' models) using Monte Carlo Simulation for uncertainty analysis; and (3) integrate the models with a genetic algorithm (GA) to optimize operating parameters for maximization of MWTP biogas production rates. The input variables were anaerobic digestion operating parameters from a MWTP including volatile fatty acids, total/fixed/volatile solids, pH, and inflow rate, which were processed via correlation tests and principal component analysis. Overall, the results indicated that the processed data did not improve regression model performances. Additionally, the developed non-linear regression model with the unprocessed inputs had the best performance based on values including R = 0.81, RMSE = 0.95, and IA = 0.89. However, this model was less accurate, but interestingly had less uncertainty, as compared to ANN and ANFIS models which indicates the compromise between model accuracy and uncertainty. Thus, all three models were coupled with GA optimization with maximum biogas production rate estimates of 22.0, 23.1, and 28.6 m/min for ANN, ANFIS, and non-linear regression models, respectively.

Haldane-Andrews substrate inhibition kinetics for pilot scale thermophilic anaerobic degradation of sugarcane vinasse.A pilot scale anaerobic degradation of sugarcane vinasse was carried out at various hydraulic retention time (HRT) in the Anaerobic Suspended Growth Closed Bioreactor (ASGCB) under thermophilic temperature. The performance and kinetics were evaluated through the Haldane-Andrews model to investigate the substrate inhibition potential of sugarcane vinasse. All parameters show great performance between HRT 35 and 25 days: chemical oxygen demand (COD) reduction efficiency (81.6 to 86.8%), volatile fatty acids (VFA) reduction efficiency (92.4 to 98.5%), maximum methane yield (70%) and maximum biogas production (19.35 L/day). Furthermore, steady state values from various HRT were obtained in the kinetic evaluation for: r (1.20 /day), K (19.95 gCOD/L), K (7.00 gCOD/L) and [Formula: see text] (0.33 LCH/gCOD ). This study shows that anaerobic degradation of sugarcane vinasse through ASGCB could perform well at high HRT and provides a low degree of substrate inhibition as compared to existing studies from literature.

Timing of biochar dosage for anaerobic digestion treating municipal leachate: Altered conversion pathways of volatile fatty acids.In this study, the anaerobic digestion (AD) applications of early & late biochar dosage were compared for municipal leachate treatment, with the objective of studying the flexible use of biochar as a mitigation measure for biomethane recovery. In two experimental phases, biochar was favourable for the immediate promotion of AD performances, as revealed by Gompertz's model of reduced lag phases, higher biomethane generation rates, and increased biomethane yields. Irrespective of late biochar dosage, it could still retrieve 89% of the ultimate biomethane potential. Comparing the residual VFAs (volatile fatty acids) compositions, it was found that the fraction of long-chain VFAs accounted for 81% of total VFAs in reactor set of early biochar dosage, while it was only 38% in the reactor of late one. Parallel evidence suggested that the schedule of biochar dosage not only could affect methanogenic responses but also the VFAs conversion pathways.

Modeling the anaerobic digestion of wastewater sludge under sulfate-rich conditions.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a biological treatment process to stabilize organic solids and produce biogas. If present, sulfate is reduced to sulfide by anaerobic sulfate-reducing bacteria and the sulfide can be toxic to anaerobic microorganisms. Here, the effect of high initial sulfate concentration on AD of wastewater sludge was investigated using lab-scale batch experiments. Additionally, a systematic mathematical modeling approach was applied for insight into the experimental results. Cumulative biogas and methane production decreased with increasing initial sulfate doses (0-3.300 mg S L ). The correlation between the sulfate dose and methane production was consistent with theoretical predictions and model results, indicating no toxic effect of sulfide on methane production. The carbon dioxide content in the biogas decreased linearly with the increasing sulfate dose, which is consistent with the model-predicted behavior of the bicarbonate and hydrogen sulfide buffering system. The examined high sulfate concentrations resulted in no clear negative effects on the COD removal or VSS destruction of the wastewater sludge, indicating negligible inhibition by sulfide toxicity. Even considering the possibility of ferrous sulfide precipitation and the low model estimates of residual sulfide concentration the residual sulfide concentration was higher than reported concentrations that trigger process inhibition. PRACTITIONER POINTS: The effect of sulfate loading on anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge was characterized. The stoichiometry of sulfate reduction allows accurate prediction of CH  loss. High sulfate levels (up to 3300 mg/L as S) did not affect COD/VSS removal. Sulfide formation increases effluent COD; often misinterpreted as sulfide toxicity. Correcting COD for sulfide's contributions is crucial for results interpretation.

Modeling interspecific competition of the microbial community during anaerobic digestion based on cellular automata and ADM1.Interspecific competition for substrate and space gives rise to considerable variation in biomass distribution within the microbial community. To study microbial community in depth, we used several research methods as sampling and analytical measurements, and developed a cellular automata (CA) model that would facilitate a description of the microbial growth process based on Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) of the International Water Association (IWA). Using the CA model, we aimed to determine whether interspecific competition occurs among acidogens, acetogens and methanogens, and to examine the influence of interspecific competition on the spatial structure of microbial communities. We found that acetogens and methanogens competed for core space, resulting in a multi-layer structure. Butyrate-degrading acetogens increased in number, resulting in inhibition of propionate-degrading acetogens. Hydrogenotrophic methanogens showed stronger competitive advantage than acetotrophic methanogens. The simulation showed that the multi-layer structure of the microbial community was formed by interspecific competition.

Predicting the performance of anaerobic digestion using machine learning algorithms and genomic data.Modeling of anaerobic digestion (AD) is crucial to better understand the process dynamics and to improve the digester performance. This is an essential yet difficult task due to the complex and unknown interactions within the system. The application of well-developed data mining technologies, such as machine learning (ML) and microbial gene sequencing techniques are promising in overcoming these challenges. In this study, we investigated the feasibility of 6 ML algorithms using genomic data and their corresponding operational parameters from 8 research groups to predict methane yield. For classification models, random forest (RF) achieved accuracies of 0.77 using operational parameters alone and 0.78 using genomic data at the bacterial phylum level alone. The combination of operational parameters and genomic data improved the prediction accuracy to 0.82 (p<0.05). For regression models, a low root mean square error of 0.04 (relative root mean square error =8.6%) was acquired by neural network using genomic data at the bacterial phylum level alone. Feature importance analysis by RF suggested that Chloroflexi, Actinobacteria, Proteobacteria, Fibrobacteres, and Spirochaeta were the top 5 most important phyla although their relative abundances were ranging only from 0.1% to 3.1%. The important features identified could provide guidance for early warning and proactive management of microbial communities. This study demonstrated the promising application of ML techniques for predicting and controlling AD performance.

13
In Vivo Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy of Hyperpolarized [1- C]Pyruvate and Proton Density Fat Fraction in a Guinea Pig Model of Non-Alcoholic Fatty Liver Disease Development After Life-Long Western Diet Consumption.Alterations in glycolysis are central to the increasing incidence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD), highlighting a need for in vivo, non-invasive technologies to understand the development of hepatic metabolic aberrations.
To use hyperpolarized magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) and proton density fat fraction (PDFF) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) techniques to investigate the effects of a chronic, life-long exposure to the Western diet (WD) in an animal model resulting in NAFLD; to investigate the hypothesis that exposure to the WD will result in NAFLD in association with altered pyruvate metabolism.
Prospective.
Twenty-eight male guinea pigs weaned onto a control diet (N = 14) or WD (N = 14).
3 T; T1-weighted gradient echo, T2-weighted spin-echo, three-dimensional gradient multi-echo fat-water separation (IDEAL-IQ), and broadband point-resolved spectroscopy (PRESS) chemical-shift sequences.
Median PDFF was calculated in the liver and hind limbs. [1- C]pyruvate dynamic MRS in the liver was quantified by the time-to-peak (TTP) for each metabolite. Animals were euthanized and tissue was analyzed for lipid and cholesterol concentration and enzyme level and activity.
Unpaired Student's t-tests were used to determine differences in measurements between the two diet groups. The Pearson correlation coefficient was calculated to determine correlations between measurements.
Life-long WD consumption resulted in significantly higher liver PDFF and elevated triglyceride content in the liver. The WD group exhibited a decreased TTP for lactate production, and ex vivo analysis highlighted increased liver lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity.
PDFF MRI results suggest differential fat deposition patterns occurring in animals fed a life-long WD characteristic of lean, or lacking excessive subcutaneous fat, NAFLD. The decreased liver lactate TTP and increased ex vivo LDH activity suggest lipid accumulation occurs in association with a shift from oxidative metabolism to anaerobic glycolytic metabolism in WD-exposed livers.
2 TECHNICAL EFFICACY STAGE: 1.

Brassica oleracea Drosophila
Cruciferous vegetables () confer cytoprotective effects in  intestines.Varieties and cultivars of the cruciferous vegetable  are widely presumed to elicit positive influences on mammalian health and disease, particularly related to their indole and sulforaphane content. However, there is a considerable gap in knowledge regarding the mechanisms whereby these plant-derived molecules elicit their beneficial effects on the host. In this study, we examined the chemical variation between  varieties and evaluated their capacity to both activate Nrf2 in the  intestine and elicit cytoprotection. Ten types of edible  were purchased and  was wild collected. Fresh material was dried, extracted by double maceration and green kale was also subjected to anaerobic fermentation before processing. Untargeted metabolomics was used to perform Principal Component Analysis. Targeted mass spectral analysis determined the presence of six indole species and quantified indole. Extracts were tested for their capacity to activate Nrf2 in the  intestine in third instar  larvae. Cytoprotective effects were evaluated using a paraquat-induced oxidative stress gut injury model. A "Smurf" assay was used to determine protective capacity against a chemically induced leaky gut. Extracts of Brussels sprouts and broccoli activated Nrf2 and protected against paraquat-induced damage and leaky gut. Lacto-fermented kale showed a cytoprotective effect, increasing survival by 20% over the non-fermented extract, but did not protect against leaky gut. The protective effects observed do not directly correlate with indole content, suggesting involvement of multiple compounds and a synergistic mechanism.

Do Primocolonizing Bacteria Enable Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron Intestinal Colonization Independently of the Capacity To Consume Oxygen?Aerobic bacteria are frequent primocolonizers of the human naive intestine. Their generally accepted role is to eliminate oxygen, which would allow colonization by anaerobes that subsequently dominate bacterial gut populations. In this hypothesis-based study, we revisited this dogma experimentally in a germfree mouse model as a mimic of the germfree newborn. We varied conditions leading to the establishment of the dominant intestinal anaerobe  Two variables were introduced:  inoculum size and preestablishment by bacteria capable or not of consuming oxygen. High  inoculum size enabled its primocolonization. At low inocula, we show that bacterial preestablishment was decisive for subsequent  colonization. However, even non-oxygen-respiring bacteria, a  mutant and the intestinal obligate anaerobe , facilitated  establishment. These findings, which are supported by recent reports, revise the long-held assumption that oxygen scavenging is the main role for aerobic primocolonizing bacteria. Instead, we suggest that better survival of aerobic bacteria  during vectorization between hosts could be a reason for their frequent primocolonization.

Potential promotion of activated carbon supported nano zero-valent iron on anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge.A large amount of waste activated sludge (WAS) harms the ecological environment, and anaerobic digestion (AD) is an effective method for WAS treatment. In this study, activated carbon (AC)/ nano zero-valent iron (NZVI) was synthesized by a liquid-phase reduction method, and was used to boost methane production. The associated mechanisms and effects of additives on AD during the addition and removal stage were investigated systematically. Compared to the blank group, the cumulative methane production was increased by 14.3%, 26.3% and 34.1% in the groups of AC, NZVI and AC/NZVI, respectively. The addition of AC/NZVI significantly increased the concentration of VFAs and promoted the hydrolysis and acidification of WAS. After the AD of the additives addition stage was finished, the additives were removed and the sludge was replenished in all groups, the methanogenesis performance of the experimental groups was significantly inhibited. The cumulative methane production in the AC and AC/NZVI groups was 21.7% and 13.5% lower than the blank group, respectively. The experimental results have a good correlation with curve fitting by the modified Gompertz model. The modified Gompertz model found that AC, NZVI and AC/NZVI increased the methanogenic potential and maximum methane production rate of WAS, but also prolonged the lag-phase time. AC/NZVI might play a role in coupling effects. It could not only maintain the original characteristics of NZVI and increase its stability, but also develop the advantages of AC promoting direct interspecies electron transfer. Microbial community analysis indicated that the abundance of hydrogenotrophic methanogens was enriched by AC/NZVI.

Evaluation of lignin inhibition in anaerobic digestion from the perspective of reducing the hydrolysis rate of holocellulose.In this study, Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) were modified to simulate anaerobic digestion (AD) process of microcrystalline cellulose (MCC) and five lignocellulosic substrates, with the goal of predicting the hydrolysis rates of holocellulose fractions in environments with and without lignin inhibition. After model verification, the hydrolysis rate constant of MCC, i.e., the hydrolyzability of cellulose without lignin inhibition, was 3.227 d, while those of the holocellulose fractions of five lignocellulosic substrates (I_k) were in the range of 1.270 d to 3.364 d (average of 2.242 d), which demonstrated remarkable suppression of holocellulose hydrolysis by lignin. Lignin inhibition index (LII) was proposed as an indicator to intuitively quantify and characterize the lignin inhibitory strength in a specific substrate. A series of factors with the potential to affect the LII were analyzed sequentially. This study provides an advanced understanding of the participation and behavior of lignin in the AD process.

Systematic simplification of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) - Model development and stoichiometric analysis.Rigorous process models provide a reliable basis for model-based monitoring and control of anaerobic digestion plants. Due to the complex model structure and non-linear system characteristics, the established Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) is rarely applied in industrial plant operation. The present investigation proposes a systematic procedure for successive model simplification and presents the description of five model variants of a mass-based ADM1. Individual model structures greatly differ in their number of implemented process phases, characteristic components and required parameters. Simplified model variants combine nutrient degradation and biogas formation based on first-order sum reactions, whereas complex model structures describe individual degradation pathways and intermediates during acido- and acetogenesis. Characteristic features of the derived model structures as well as the stoichiometric methane potentials and microbial biomass yields of the underlying degradation pathways of individual model variations are evaluated and discussed in detail.

Shift in methanogenic community in protein degradation using different inocula.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of protein-rich wastes is problematic due to production of ammonia and hydrogen sulfide. In this work, eight inocula were used in batch AD of solutions of gelatin and gluten at 3 g COD substrate/1g VSS inoculum. AD plants from which inocula originated were treating food waste or food wastewater, wastewater sludge, or a combination of them. Inocula were evaluated by fitting methane production data using the modified Gompertz model. Sequencing of 16 s rRNA of microorganisms showed that Methanoculleus was dominant in inocula from plants that were treating food waste, and Methanosaeta was dominant in the others. The maximum methane production rate varied by a factor of three for each substrate: 2.734-7.438 mLCH gCOD d for gelatin, and 1.950 to 5.532 mLCH gCOD d for gluten. This study demonstrates that inoculum must be chosen appropriately when treating proteinaceous waste by AD.

Systematic simplification of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) - Laboratory experiments and model application.Due to a limited number of available measurements on agricultural biogas plants, established process models, such as the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1), are rarely applied in practise. To provide a reliable basis for model-based monitoring and control, different model simplifications of the ADM1 were implemented for process simulation of semi-continuous anaerobic digestion experiments using agricultural substrates (maize silage, sugar beet silage, rye grain and cattle manure) and industrial residues (grain stillage). Individual model structures enable a close depiction of biogas production rates and characteristic intermediates (ammonium nitrogen, propionic and acetic acid) with equal accuracy as the original ADM1. The impact of different objective functions and standard parameter values on parameter estimates of first-order hydrolysis constants and microbial growth rates were evaluated. Due to the small number of required model parameters and suitable system characteristics, simplified model structures show clear advantages for practical application on agricultural biogas plants.

Anaerobic digestion of urban wastes: integration and benefits of a small-scale system.This work presents an integrated approach of anaerobic digestion (AD) at the urban scale, based on on-site collected wastes, experimentation in a pilot reactor, and model approach. To cope with urban waste limitations (season inflow, organic matter decrease, limited area), it was proposed a settlement of wastewater (WW), a drying of food waste (FW), and silage of green waste (GW). The results obtained highlight the performance of these pretreatments to concentrate and/or preserve the organic matter over time. Co-digestion in a 30-liter reactor was then successfully carried out, resulting in an 83% of volatile solids reduction and stable methane production of 321 ml CH/g VS, in 35 days. Finally, we developed a standard neighbourhood model with AD based on these experimental results. It appears that 66% of the primary sludge (PS) and 28% of the FWs produced daily could be treated by the proposal process. 14% of the annual production of GW could thus be processed daily. From an energetic point of view, the process generates a surplus of respectively, 2500 MJ/year and 38,000 MJ/year in terms of electricity and heat. The generation of 15 times more heat energy than electricity, supports an installation of anaerobic digestion, close to homes. Moreover, if these results are encouraging, we suggest different scenarios of co-digestion ratios and operational parameters for their optimization.

Enhanced biomethanization of waste polylactic acid plastic by mild hydrothermal pretreatment: Taguchi orthogonal optimization and kinetics modeling.Polylactic acid (PLA) plastic is becoming a popular alternative to traditional petroleum-based plastics, but the biodegradability in engineered biological system is still a matter of concern. In this study, the biodegradability of PLA plastic at mesophilic and thermophilic AD were investigated, and a hydrothermal pretreatment was proposed to enhance the hydrolysis of PLA plastic and subsequent biomethanization. For raw PLA plastic, the biodegradation results indicated that PLA was hardly biodegraded at mesophilic conditions (only 50.5 ± 0.5 mL/g VS after 146 days). Although it was converted into biogas at thermophilic conditions after long incubation period (442.6 ± 1.1 mL/g VS), the long digestion time (T 95.8 days) was destined to be infeasible for practical application. In contrast, hydrothermal pretreatment significantly enhanced the hydrolysis rates of PLA plastic in AD process from 0.001 day for raw PLA plastic to 0.004-0.111 day. By balancing biogas production efficiency, energy and reagent cost, the conditions of 200 °C, 10 min and no alkali addition were recommended for hydrothermal pretreatment of waste PLA plastic in practice. At the optimized hydrothermal pretreatment conditions, 460.1 ± 25.0 mL/g VS was achieved in less than 30 days, which was comparable for AD of food waste (FW). Furthermore, LC-QEMS analysis proved that cleavages of ester bonds in PLA and its reaction with water molecule was the mechanism of triggering the hydrothermally decomposition of PLA. These results suggested the PLA-plastic waste co-mingled with OFMSW could be efficiently biomethanized into biogas by involving a mild hydrothermal pretreatment in practical application.

Potassium ferrate coupled with freezing method enhances methane production from sludge anaerobic digestion.This study proposed a novel sludge pretreatment technology by combining freezing with potassium ferrate (PF) for synergistically enhancing the methane yield from sludge anaerobic digestion. Experimental results showed that the methane production was promoted from 170.1 ± 5.6 to 223.8 ± 7.0 mL/g VSS (volatile suspended solids) when pretreated by freezing coupled with 0.05 g/g TSS (total suspended solids) PF, with 31.6% increase. Kinetic model analysis indicated that the methane production potential and hydrolysis rate of sludge after combined pretreatment were enhanced by 32.0% and 15.0%, respectively. Mechanism studies revealed that freezing coupled with PF pretreatment effectively disrupted both extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) and microbial cells in sludge, consequently resulted in violent sludge disintegration. All the microbes responsible for hydrolysis, acidification and methanogenesis were found to be enriched by co-treatment of freezing and PF. Moreover, the fecal coliform in pretreated sludge was largely inactivated after anaerobic digestion.

Dietary Fucose Affects Macrophage Polarization and Reproductive Performance in Mice.Intestinal mucus protects epithelial and immune cells from the gut resident microorganisms, and provides growth-promoting factors as mucus-derived O-glycans for beneficial bacteria. A lack of intestinal protective mucus results in changes in the commensal microflora composition, mucosal immune system reprogramming, and inflammation. Previous work has shown that fucose, the terminal glycan chain component of the intestinal glycoprotein Mucin2, and fucoidan polysaccharides have an anti-inflammatory effect in some mouse models of colitis. This study evaluates the effect of fucose on reproductive performance in heterozygous mutant  female mice. We found that even though  females are physiologically indistinguishable from C57Bl/6 mice, they have a significantly reduced reproductive performance upon dietary fucose supplementation. Metagenomic analysis reveals that the otherwise healthy wild-type siblings of  animals have reduced numbers of some of the intestinal commensal bacterial species, compared to C57BL/6 mice. We propose that the changes in beneficial microflora affect the immune status in  mice, which causes implantation impairment. In accordance with this hypothesis, we find that macrophage polarization during pregnancy is impaired in  females upon addition of fucose. Metabolic profiling of peritoneal macrophages from  females reveals their predisposition towards anaerobic glycolysis in favor of oxidative phosphorylation, compared to C57BL/6-derived cells. In vitro experiments on phagocytosis activity and mitochondrial respiration suggest that fucose affects oxidative phosphorylation in a genotype-specific manner, which might interfere with implantation depending on the initial status of macrophages. This hypothesis is further confirmed in BALB/c female mice, where fucose caused pregnancy loss and opposed implantation-associated M2 macrophage polarization. Taken together, these data suggest that intestinal microflora affects host immunity and pregnancy outcome. At the same time, dietary fucose might act as a differential regulator of macrophage polarization during implantation, depending on the immune status of the host.

Biochemical potential evaluation and kinetic modeling of methane production from six agro-industrial wastewaters in mixed culture.Methane (CH) production from anaerobic digestion of solid and liquid agro-industrial wastes is an attractive strategy to meet the growing need for renewable energy sources and promote environmentally appropriate disposal of organic wastes. This work aimed at determining the CH production potential of six agro-industrial wastewaters (AWW), evaluating the most promising for methanization purposes. It also aims to provide kinetic parameters and stoichiometric coefficients of CH production and define which kinetic models are most suitable for simulating the CH production of the evaluated substrates. The AWW studied were swine wastewater (SW), slaughterhouse wastewater (SHW), dairy wastewater (DW), brewery wastewater (BW), fruit processing wastewater (FPW), and residual glycerol (RG) of biodiesel production. RG was the substrate that showed the highest methanization potential. Exponential kinetic models can be efficiently applied for describing CH production of more soluble substrates. On the other hand, logistic models were more suitable to predict the CH production of more complex substrates.

Density profile modeling for real-time estimation of liquid level in anaerobic digester using multiple pressure meters.The liquid level of a bioreactor is an important operating parameter governing the hydraulic retention time. In this study, a novel method is proposed to estimate the liquid level of anaerobic digesters. The proposed method has an advantage over typical differential pressure measurement as it considers the heterogeneity of the digestate along the level using multiple pressure meters. The real-time measurement generates a model to fit the densities at different liquid columns, predicts the density of the surface layer and determines the overall liquid level. A pilot-scale (0.33 m working volume; 1.2 m liquid level) digester, equipped with seven pressure meters, was operated to test the methodology. The performance of the digester was confirmed stable during a long-term (175 d) operation. A set of density-pressure models was developed and were validated using the long-term experimental data. The new method employing cubic model showed significantly better estimation of the reactor level (mean error rate of 1.31%) with improved CDF, as compared with the traditional differential pressure method (mean error rate of 5.71%). The methodology proposed in this study is simple, robust, and cost-effective and can be used to provide additional insights into the operation of an anaerobic digester such as assessing the mixing efficiency.

Anaerobic co-digestion: Current status and perspectives.Anaerobic digestion is a long-established technology for the valorization of diverse organic wastes with concomitant generation of valuable resources. However, mono-digestion (i.e., anaerobic digestion using one feedstock) suffers from challenges associated with feedstock characteristics. Co-digestion using multiple feedstocks provides the potential to overcome these limitations. Significant research and development efforts have highlighted several inherent merits of co-digestion, including enhanced digestibility due to synergistic effects of co-substrates, better process stability, and higher nutrient value of the produced co-digestate. However, studies focused on the underlying effects of diverse co-feedstocks on digester performance and stability have not been synthesized so far. This review fills this gap by highlighting the limitations of mono-digestion and critically examining the benefits of co-digestion. Furthermore, this review discusses synergistic effect of co-substrates, characterization of microbial communities, the prediction of biogas production via different kinetic models, and highlights future research directions for the development of a sustainable biorefinery.

Co-digestion of primary sewage sludge with drinking water treatment sludge: A comprehensive evaluation of benefits.Anaerobic co-digestion of primary sludge with two types of drinking water treatment sludge (DWTS), namely iron- or aluminum-rich DWTS (Fe- or Al-DWTS) were systematically evaluated by biochemical methane potential tests, kinetic modelling, downstream process parameters and microbial community analysis. Specific methane yields decreased approximately 19% to 123 mL·g VS, while the hydrolysis constant k decreased from 0.21 d to 0.18 d for Fe-DWTS at 10% to 40% dosages. On the contrary, specific methane yields decreased 45-55% for Al-DWTS, and k decreased to 0.14 d at 40% dosage. Significant removals (>95%) of phosphate and hydrogen sulfide were observed for Fe- and Al-DWTS additions at 40% dosage. Microbial community analysis revealed that Al-DWTS increased the abundance of most hydrogenotrophic methanogens, while Fe-DWTS increased the abundance of acetoclastic methanogens. Kinetic modelling further revealed that Fe- and Al-DWTS additions affected the hydrolysis and methanogenesis process kinetics and the methane yield differently.

Anaerobic digestion: An alternative resource treatment option for food waste in China.With the implementation of zero-waste city and waste classification in China, a large amount of food waste (FW) began to appear in concentration, and there was an urgent requirement for appropriate and efficient treatment technology. Traditional FW disposal methods (landfill and incineration) could cause several environmental problems, so resource recycling has become the main development trend of FW in China. In recent years, anaerobic digestion (AD) technology for FW resource treatment has attracted much attention due to its advantages such as the ability to obtain clean energy, low carbon emissions, and suitability for large-scale treatment compared with other recycling technologies (composting, feed, and breeding insects). Chinese policy is conducive to the development of AD for FW, which has the potential to produce methane and achieve economic and environmental benefits. This paper presents an overview of the researches, application situations, and perspectives for the AD of FW resource treatment in China. The bibliometric analysis shows that China has the most interest in the AD of FW compared to other countries, and the amount and characteristics analysis of FW indicates that FW is suitable for treatment by AD. At the same time, this review analyzes the influence factors, methods to promote AD, working mechanism, secondary pollution of AD. Besides, the article introduces and analyzes the current policies, application status, economic and environmental benefits, and problems of AD for FW resource treatment in China. AD is considered as an alternative resource treatment technology for FW, although there are still several problems such as odors, digestate, etc. In the future, China should focus on the reform of management policy, the implementation of the AD circular economy model, and the research of the biorefinery model based on AD technology.

Geobacter
Cytochromes in Extracellular Electron Transfer in .Extracellular electron transfer (EET) is an important biological process in microbial physiology as found in dissimilatory metal oxidation/reduction and interspecies electron transfer in syntrophy in natural environments. EET also plays a critical role in microorganisms relevant to environmental biotechnology in metal-contaminated areas, metal corrosion, bioelectrochemical systems, and anaerobic digesters.  species exist in a diversity of natural and artificial environments. One of the outstanding features of  species is the capability of direct EET with solid electron donors and acceptors, including metals, electrodes, and other cells. Therefore,  species are pivotal in environmental biogeochemical cycles and biotechnology applications. , a representative  species, has been studied for direct EET as a model microorganism.  employs electrically conductive pili (e-pili) and -type cytochromes for the direct EET. The biological function and electronics applications of the e-pili have been reviewed recently, and this review focuses on the cytochromes.  species have an unusually large number of cytochromes encoded in their genomes. Unlike most other microorganisms,  species localize multiple cytochromes in each subcellular fraction, outer membrane, periplasm, and inner membrane, as well as in the extracellular space, and differentially utilize these cytochromes for EET with various electron donors and acceptors. Some of the cytochromes are functionally redundant. Thus, the EET in  is complicated.  coordinates the cytochromes with other cellular components in the elaborate EET system to flourish in the environment.

Estimation of in-situ biogas upgrading in microbial electrolysis cells via direct electron transfer: Two-stage machine learning modeling based on a NARX-BP hybrid neural network.With the increasing of data in wastewater treatment, data-driven machine learning models are useful for modeling biological processes and complex reactions. However, few data-driven models have been developed for simulating the microbial electrolysis cells (MECs) and traditional models are too ambiguous to comprehend the mechanisms. In this study, a new general data-driven two-stage model was firstly developed to predict CH production from in-situ biogas upgrading in the biocathode MECs via direct electron transfer (DET), named NARX-BP hybrid neural networks. Compared with traditional one-stage model, the model could well predict methane production via DET with excellent performance (all R and MES of 0.918 and 6.52 × 10, respectively) and reveal the mechanisms of biogas upgrading, for the new systematical modeling approach could improve the versatility and applicability by inputting significant intermediate variables. In addition, the model is generally available to support long-term prediction and optimal operation for anaerobic digestion or complex MEC systems.

Toward net-zero sustainable aviation fuel with wet waste-derived volatile fatty acids.With the increasing demand for net-zero sustainable aviation fuels (SAF), new conversion technologies are needed to process waste feedstocks and meet carbon reduction and cost targets. Wet waste is a low-cost, prevalent feedstock with the energy potential to displace over 20% of US jet fuel consumption; however, its complexity and high moisture typically relegates its use to methane production from anaerobic digestion. To overcome this, methanogenesis can be arrested during fermentation to instead produce C to C volatile fatty acids (VFA) for catalytic upgrading to SAF. Here, we evaluate the catalytic conversion of food waste-derived VFAs to produce n-paraffin SAF for near-term use as a 10 vol% blend for ASTM "Fast Track" qualification and produce a highly branched, isoparaffin VFA-SAF to increase the renewable blend limit. VFA ketonization models assessed the carbon chain length distributions suitable for each VFA-SAF conversion pathway, and food waste-derived VFA ketonization was demonstrated for >100 h of time on stream at approximately theoretical yield. Fuel property blending models and experimental testing determined normal paraffin VFA-SAF meets 10 vol% fuel specifications for "Fast Track." Synergistic blending with isoparaffin VFA-SAF increased the blend limit to 70 vol% by addressing flashpoint and viscosity constraints, with sooting 34% lower than fossil jet. Techno-economic analysis evaluated the major catalytic process cost-drivers, determining the minimum fuel selling price as a function of VFA production costs. Life cycle analysis determined that if food waste is diverted from landfills to avoid methane emissions, VFA-SAF could enable up to 165% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions relative to fossil jet.

Escherichia coli
Development of a Genome-Scale Metabolic Model and Phenome Analysis of the Probiotic  Strain Nissle 1917.Nissle 1917 (EcN) is an intestinal probiotic that is effective for the treatment of intestinal disorders, such as inflammatory bowel disease and ulcerative colitis. EcN is a representative Gram-negative probiotic in biomedical research and is an intensively studied probiotic. However, to date, its genome-wide metabolic network model has not been developed. Here, we developed a comprehensive and highly curated EcN metabolic model, referred to as iDK1463, based on genome comparison and phenome analysis. The model was improved and validated by comparing the simulation results with experimental results from phenotype microarray tests. iDK1463 comprises 1463 genes, 1313 unique metabolites, and 2984 metabolic reactions. Phenome data of EcN were compared with those of  intestinal commensal K-12 MG1655. iDK1463 was simulated to identify the genetic determinants responsible for the observed phenotypic differences between EcN and K-12. Further, the model was simulated for gene essentiality analysis and utilization of nutrient sources under anaerobic growth conditions. These analyses provided insights into the metabolic mechanisms by which EcN colonizes and persists in the gut. iDK1463 will contribute to the system-level understanding of the functional capacity of gut microbes and their interactions with microbiota and human hosts, as well as the development of live microbial therapeutics.

Experimentally Validated Reconstruction and Analysis of a Genome-Scale Metabolic Model of an Anaerobic Neocallimastigomycota Fungus.Anaerobic gut fungi in the phylum Neocallimastigomycota typically inhabit the digestive tracts of large mammalian herbivores, where they play an integral role in the decomposition of raw lignocellulose into its constitutive sugar monomers. However, quantitative tools to study their physiology are lacking, partially due to their complex and unresolved metabolism that includes the largely uncharacterized fungal hydrogenosome. Modern omics approaches combined with metabolic modeling can be used to establish an understanding of gut fungal metabolism and develop targeted engineering strategies to harness their degradation capabilities for lignocellulosic bioprocessing. Here, we introduce a high-quality genome of the anaerobic fungus  from which we constructed the first genome-scale metabolic model of an anaerobic fungus. Relative to its size (200 Mbp, sequenced at 62× depth), it is the least fragmented publicly available gut fungal genome to date. Of the 1,788 lignocellulolytic enzymes annotated in the genome, 585 are associated with the fungal cellulosome, underscoring the powerful lignocellulolytic potential of  The genome-scale metabolic model captures the primary metabolism of  and accurately predicts experimentally validated substrate utilization requirements. Additionally, metabolic flux predictions are verified by C metabolic flux analysis, demonstrating that the model faithfully describes the underlying fungal metabolism. Furthermore, the model clarifies key aspects of the hydrogenosomal metabolism and can be used as a platform to quantitatively study these biotechnologically important yet poorly understood early-branching fungi. Recent genomic analyses have revealed that anaerobic gut fungi possess both the largest number and highest diversity of lignocellulolytic enzymes of all sequenced fungi, explaining their ability to decompose lignocellulosic substrates, e.g., agricultural waste, into fermentable sugars. Despite their potential, the development of engineering methods for these organisms has been slow due to their complex life cycle, understudied metabolism, and challenging anaerobic culture requirements. Currently, there is no framework that can be used to combine multi-omic data sets to understand their physiology. Here, we introduce a high-quality PacBio-sequenced genome of the anaerobic gut fungus  Beyond identifying a trove of lignocellulolytic enzymes, we use this genome to construct the first genome-scale metabolic model of an anaerobic gut fungus. The model is experimentally validated and sheds light on unresolved metabolic features common to gut fungi. Model-guided analysis will pave the way for deepening our understanding of anaerobic gut fungi and provides a systematic framework to guide strain engineering efforts of these organisms for biotechnological use.

The pump-mixed anaerobic digestion of pig slurry: new technology and mathematical modeling.Biogas production is a relatively novel and developing branch of the renewable fuel sector, which allows agricultural waste, and more, to be used as a feedstock. New technologies have been integrated into the process to improve its efficiency. In this study, a pump-mixed anaerobic digestion concept is considered for both experimental and modeling approaches. The experiment included a total of nine configurations with the same geometry (140 dm of total reactor volume) but different hydraulic retention times and mixing intervals. The measurements were used to create and optimize a mathematical model. The complete-stirring assumption, which underlies most anaerobic digestion (AD) simulations, is no longer valid in this case. Thus, the novel concept is developed by assuming that the liquid phase is split into three separate sections, which approximates the concentration gradient in a real reactor. This method allows partial differential equations to be avoided, which could potentially affect the calculation efficiency. The final mean accuracy of the model in the tested range was estimated to be 86.60% while, in selected parts of the scope, was close to 90%. The pump-mixed anaerobic digestion technique in the experiment achieved high production performance (above 8 dm of product per 1 dm of feedstock) while maintaining a high methane content (approximately 65%). The comparison between the reactor stirred by an impeller, and the pump-mixed, indicated that the proposed configuration ensures better production stability. Additionally, it was possible to achieve a higher biogas production rate with the same feedstock concentration.

Protective Effect of Luminal Uric Acid Against Indomethacin-Induced Enteropathy: Role of Antioxidant Effect and Gut Microbiota.Uric acid (UA) has anti- and pro-inflammatory properties. We previously revealed that elevated serum UA levels provide protection against murine small intestinal injury probably via luminal UA secreted in the small intestine. Luminal UA may act as an antioxidant, preventing microbiota vulnerability to oxidative stress. However, whether luminal UA is increased under hyperuricemia and plays a protective role in a dose-dependent manner as well as the mechanism by which luminal UA exerts its protective effects on enteropathy remains unknown.
Inosinic acid (IMP) (1000 mg/kg, i.p.) was administered to obtain high serum UA (HUA) and moderate serum UA (500 mg/kg IMP, i.p.) mice. UA concentrations and levels of oxidative stress markers in the serum and intestine were measured. Mice received indomethacin (20 mg/kg, i.p.) to evaluate the effects of UA on indomethacin-induced enteropathy. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) on the ileal mucosa were analyzed. The fecal microbiota of HUA mice was transplanted to investigate its effect on indomethacin-induced enteropathy.
IMP increased luminal UA dose-dependently, with higher levels of luminal antioxidant markers. Indomethacin-induced enteropathy was significantly ameliorated in both UA-elevated groups, with decreased indomethacin-induced luminal ROS. The microbiota of HUA mice showed a significant increase in α-diversity and a significant difference in β-diversity from the control. Fecal microbiota transplantation from HUA mice ameliorated indomethacin-induced enteropathy.
The protective role of luminal UA in intestinal injury is likely exerted via oxidative stress elimination and microbiota composition modulation, preferably for gut immunity. Therefore, enhancing anaerobic conditions using antioxidants is a potential therapeutic target.

Bupleuri radix extract ameliorates impaired lipid metabolism in high-fat diet-induced obese mice via gut microbia-mediated regulation of FGF21 signaling pathway.Obesity and its comorbidities are associated with abnormal lipid metabolism and gut microbiota dysbiosis. Bupleuri Radix is a medicinal plant used in traditional Chinese medicine with the prevention and treatment of obesity-related diseases. In this study, we aim to validate the regulation of Bupleuri Radix Extract (BupE) on lipid metabolism in obese mice, and try to find out the potential active components and reveal the underlying mechanisms.
Ingredients in BupE, their circulating metabolites in mice and fecal biotransformation products were analyzed by ultra-performance liquid chromatography coupled to quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry (UPLC/Q-TOF-MS). Western blotting, RT-PCR and ELISA were used for tests of objective genes and proteins. 16 s rRNA sequencing was performed to examine intestinal bacteria composition and microbes' functional changes were predicted with PICRUSt software. An absolute quantification method was set up via the construction of recombinant plasmid for the assays of intestinal flora. Specific microbial strains were cultured in anaerobic conditions and oral administrated to mice for intestinal mono-colonization.
BupE attenuated obesity, liver steatosis, and dyslipidemia in HFD-fed mice by up-regulating the expression of FGF21 in liver and white adipose tissue (WAT) as well as the downstream proteins of FGF21 signal pathway including β-klotho, GLUT1 and PGC-1α, etc. UPLC/Q-TOF-MS fingerprints showed no compounds from BupE or their metabolites or biotransformation products were detected in rodent serum samples. High-throughput pyrosequencing data indicated that BupE reversed obesity-induced constructional and functional alterations of intestinal flora. Two bacterial strains, Bacteroides acidifaciens (B. acidifaciens) and Ruminococcus gnavus (R. gnavus), were separated and identified from the feces of obese mice and by intestinal mono-colonization they were verified to intervene in the anti-obesity effects of BupE on mice.
These data suggest that BupE protects against diet-induced obesity and counteracts metabolic syndrome features consistent with a mechanism involving the gut-liver axis that boosts hepatic FGF21 secretion and consequent down-stream proteins expression relating to lipid metabolism. And in this gut-liver axis, intestinal microbes such as B.acidifaciens and R.gnavus play an indispensable role.

Novel insight into enhanced recoverability of acidic inhibition to anaerobic digestion with nano-bubble water supplementation.Nano-bubble water (NBW) has been proven to be effective in promoting organics utilization and CH production during anaerobic digestion (AD) process, suggesting its potential in improving the stability of the AD process and thereby alleviating acidic inhibition. In this work, the effect of NBW on digestion stability and CH production was investigated to evaluate the ability of NBW on AD recovery from acidic inhibition. Results showed that NBW supplementation increased the total alkalinity (TA) and partial alkalinity (PA), and reduced the ratio of VFA/TA, thus maintained the stability of the AD process. Generation/consumption of VFAs was also enhanced with NBW supplementation under acidic inhibition with pH values of 5.5, 6.0 and 6.5. The cumulative CH production was 246-257 mL/g-VS in NBW groups, which was 12.1-17.2% higher than the control. Moreover, with NBW supplementation, the maximum CH production rate was raised according to the modeling results.

3 3 2 2
Improvement of biotreatability of environmentally persistent antibiotic Tiamulin by O and O/HO oxidation processes.The aim of the work was to assess the efficiency of ozonation and ozonation in combination with HO in jet loop reactor to increase biotreatability of persistent veterinary antibiotic Tiamulin. The efficiency of oxidative processes was monitored by combined approach based on determination of efficiency of wastewater treatment and impact to waste sludge stabilization. Degradation of Tiamulin in model wastewater (100 mg L) during oxidation was followed by COD and DOC measurements while changes in biodegradability were determined by respirometric measurements. Biogas production potential was also determined to identify problems related to anaerobic digestion of waste sludge resulted in treatment of Tiamulin-contaminated wastewater. At ozone dose of 69 g g and 220 g gremoval for COD and DOC was 26% and 17%, respectively. Better biotreatability was confirmed by respirometric testing. HO addition did not improve removal efficiency (11-13%). The second stage of nitrification was suppressed by the addition of Tiamulin and ozonation again recovered  formation. O/HO treated sample reduced the nitrification, especially formation of  in the first phase of the process. Simultaneously, quadratic model was developed to describe the relationship between oxygen uptake rate and changes in ammonium nitrogen concentration due to the oxidative treatment. The positive impact of ozone was also confirmed by ozonation of Tiamulin-contaminated (400 mg L) waste sludge where biogas production potential was increased for 6-times. Combination of approaches confirmed, that O effectively increase the treatability of Tiamulin in wastewater and sludge while addition of the hydrogen peroxide generally did not improve the performance of the processes.

Faecalibacterium prausnitzii
Primary human colonic mucosal barrier crosstalk with super oxygen-sensitive  in continuous culture.The gut microbiome plays an important role in human health and disease. Gnotobiotic animal and  cell-based models provide some informative insights into mechanistic crosstalk. However, there is no existing system for a long-term co-culture of a human colonic mucosal barrier with super oxygen-sensitive commensal microbes, hindering the study of human-microbe interactions in a controlled manner.
Here, we investigated the effects of an abundant super oxygen-sensitive commensal anaerobe,  on a primary human mucosal barrier using a Gut-MIcrobiome (GuMI) physiome platform that we designed and fabricated.
Long-term continuous co-culture of  for two days with colon epithelia, enabled by continuous flow of completely anoxic apical media and aerobic basal media, resulted in a strictly anaerobic apical environment fostering growth of and butyrate production by , while maintaining a stable colon epithelial barrier. We identified elevated differentiation and hypoxia-responsive genes and pathways in the platform compared with conventional aerobic static culture of the colon epithelia, attributable to a combination of anaerobic environment and continuous medium replenishment. Furthermore, we demonstrated anti-inflammatory effects of  through HDAC and the TLR-NFKB axis. Finally, we identified that butyrate largely contributes to the anti-inflammatory effects by downregulating TLR3 and TLR4.
Our results are consistent with some clinical observations regarding  thus motivating further studies employing this platform with more complex engineered colon tissues for understanding the interaction between the human colonic mucosal barrier and microbiota, pathogens, or engineered bacteria.

Biochemical methane potential prediction for mixed feedstocks of straw and manure in anaerobic co-digestion.To rapidly estimate the biochemical methane potential (BMP) of feedstocks, different multivariate regression models were established between BMP and the physicochemical indexes or near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS). Mixed fermentation feedstocks of corn stover and livestock manure were rapidly detected BMP in anaerobic co-digestion (co-AD). The results showed that the predicted accuracy of NIRS model based on characteristic wavelengths selected by multiple competitive adaptive reweighted sampling outperformed all regression models based on the physicochemical indexes. For the NIRS regression model, coefficient of determination, root mean squares error, relative root mean squares error, mean relative error and residual predictive deviation of the validation set were 0.982, 6.599, 2.713%, 2.333% and 7.605. The results reveal that the predicted accuracy of NIRS model is very high, and meet the requirements of rapid prediction of BMP for co-AD feedstocks in practical biogas engineering.

A novel standalone microfluidic device for local control of oxygen tension for intestinal-bacteria interactions.The intestinal environment is unique because it supports the intestinal epithelial cells under a normal oxygen environment and the microbiota under an anoxic environment. Due to importance of understanding the interactions between the epithelium and the microbiota, there is a strong need for developing representative and simple experimental models. Current approaches do not capture the partitioned oxygen environment, require external anaerobic chambers, or are complex. Another major limitation is that with the solutions that can mimic this oxygen environment, the oxygenation level of the epithelial cells is not known, raising the question whether the cells are hypoxic or not. We report standalone microfluidic devices that form a partitioned oxygen environment without the use of an external anaerobic chamber or oxygen scavengers to coculture intestinal epithelial and bacterial cells. By changing the thickness of the device cover, the oxygen tension in the chamber was modulated. We verified the oxygen levels using several tests: microscale oxygen sensitive sensors which were integrated within the devices, immunostaining of Caco-2 cells to determine hypoxia levels, and genetically encoded bacteria to visualize the growth. Collectively, these methods monitored oxygen concentrations in the devices more comprehensively than previous reports and allowed for control of oxygen tension to match the requirements of both intestinal cells and anaerobic bacteria. Our experimental model is supported by the mathematical model that considered diffusion of oxygen into the top chamber. This allowed us to experimentally determine the oxygen consumption rate of the intestinal epithelial cells under perfusion.

Evaluation of potential feedstock for biogas production via anaerobic digestion in Malaysia: kinetic studies and economics analysis.As the population increases, energy demands continue to rise rapidly. In order to satisfy this increasing energy demand, biogas offers a potential alternative. Biogas is economically viable to be produced through anaerobic digestion (AD) from various biomass feedstocks that are readily available in Malaysia, such as food waste (FW), palm oil mill effluent (POME), garden waste (GW), landfill, sewage sludge (SS) and animal manure. This paper aims to determine the potential feedstocks for biogas production via AD based on their characteristics, methane yield, kinetic studies and economic analysis. POME and FW show the highest methane yield with biogas yields up to 0.50 L/g VS while the lowest is 0.12 L/g VS by landfill leachate. Kinetic study shows that modified Gompertz model fits most of the feedstock with R 2 up to 1 indicating that this model can be used for estimating treatment efficiencies of full-scale reactors and performing scale-up analysis. The economic analysis shows that POME has the shortest payback period (PBP), highest internal rate of return (IRR) and net present value (NPV). However, it has already been well explored, with 93% of biogas plants in Malaysia using POME as feedstock. The FW generation rate in Malaysia is approximately 15,000 tonnes per day, at the same time FW as the second place shows potential to have a PBP of 5.4 years and 13.3% IRR, which is close to the results achieved with POME. This makes FW suitable to be used as the feedstock for biogas production.

Enhancing methane production from dewatered waste activated sludge through alkaline and photocatalytic pretreatment.Waste activated sludge generated from wastewater treatment plants makes an abundant source of biomass. Its effective utilization through anaerobic digestion (AD) requires pretreatment to disintegrate the sludge matrix and increase organic matter availability. In this study, dewatered waste activated sludge (DWAS) was subjected to alkaline, photocatalytic, and alkaline-photocatalytic pretreatment for its disintegration and subsequent methane production using different concentrations of sodium hydroxide and titania nanoparticles. Individual pretreatment resulted in maximum disintegration degree (DD) of 11.3 and 5.2% at 0.8% NaOH and 0.6 gTiO/L, respectively. Alkaline-photocatalytic pretreatment yielded 37% DD at 0.8% NaOH-0.4 g/L TiO. As compared to control, AD at 0.4% NaOH and 0.5 g/L TiO pretreatments yielded maximum methane, which was 50.4 and 32.6% higher. Similarly, alkaline-photocatalytic pretreatment at 0.4% NaOH-0.5 g/L TiO yielded methane as 462 N mL/g VS, which was 71.1% higher. Modified Gompertz model fitted the methane yield data well.

Prediction of methane production from co-digestion of lignocellulosic biomass with sludge based on the major compositions of lignocellulosic biomass.In the present study, the simplex lattice mixture design method was adopted to design the artificial biomass with different ratios of three major components (cellulose, hemicellulose, lignin). The methane yield from the co-digestion of the artificial/ natural biomass (corn stover, wheat stover, rice straw, and peanut stalk) samples with the mixed sludge at the mixture ratio of 1:1 based on total solid (TS) content was recorded for 50 days. The original mathematical prediction models for estimating the cumulative methane production, maximum methane production rate, and lag phase time were established based on the experimental results from the co-digestion of artificial biomass with sludge. To investigate the influence of the structural features of biomass and interactions among the components of biomass which contributing to the inhibition of methane production, the macroscopic factor (MF) was proposed. The mathematical models which revealed the relationship between MF and the methane production parameters were developed by the combination of the prediction results from the original mathematical prediction model and experimental results from the co-digestion of natural biomass with sludge. Modification of the original mathematical prediction models was carried out by considering MF. After modification, the relative error (RE) and root mean square error (RMSE) of the prediction model for cumulative methane production were declined from 19.00 to 30.18% and 42.38 mL/g VS to that of - 1.93~7.14% and 4.36 mL/g VS, respectively.

Improving anaerobic digestion of chicken manure under optimized biochar supplementation strategies.Anaerobic digestion of chicken manure was carried out in this study basing on central composite design to identify the most optimal strategy for biochar supplementation. Model of cumulative methane production (CMP) was established by using response surface methodology. The optimal conditions predicted accordingly, including manure loading of 51.8 g VS/L, biochar dosage of 3.3% VS, and cellulose loading of 98.0 g VS/L, were expected to maximize CMP, i.e., 294 mL/g VS. The results also demonstrated that biochar dosage and its interaction with manure loading were key factors with significant impact on CMP. Biochar dosage higher than 3.5% VS was observed to weaken the transformation of organic substances to methane. Higher dosage of biochar could considerably reduce concentration of organic acids, total ammonia nitrogen, as well as soluble salts. Verification experiment supported validity of the optimal strategy and provided data for cost assessment, which showed positive cost balances from biochar supplementation.

3 4
Efficacy of magnetite (FeO) nanoparticles for enhancing solid-state anaerobic co-digestion: Focus on reactor performance and retention time.The influence of magnetite nanoparticle (nFeO) concentrations (20, 50, and 75 mg/L) on reactor performance and retention time was investigated for the first time in an initially upset solid-state anaerobic batch (SSAB) reactor. nFeO mitigated acidification threat, enhanced reactor stability, ensured rapid volatile fatty acids bioconversion, and modified microbial community. The impacts reduced retention time by 27 days relative to the control. Of the nFeO concentrations, 20 mg/L had the highest hemicellulose degradation (93%) and methane yield (191.2 L/kg VS) with no threat to anaerobic microbes. Besides, existing kinetic models, novel models equally well-described methane yield with low root mean square errors (RMSE) < 1.2 and high coefficients of determination (R) > 98%, therefore could be used for downstream applications. This study provides useful information on the impact of nFeO on reactor stability and reactor performance in an initially upset SSAB reactor.

Caenorhabditis elegans
Functional Assembly of  Cytochrome b-2 (Cecytb-2) into Phospholipid Bilayer Nanodisc with Enhanced Iron Reductase Activity.Among seven homologs of cytochrome  in a model organism , Cecytb-2 was confirmed to be expressed in digestive organs and was considered as a homolog of human Dcytb functioning as a ferric reductase. Cecytb-2 protein was expressed in  cells, purified, and reconstituted into a phospholipid bilayer nanodisc. The reconstituted Cecytb-2 in nanodisc environments was extremely stable and more reducible with ascorbate than in a detergent-micelle state. We confirmed the ferric reductase activity of Cecytb-2 by analyzing the oxidation of ferrous heme upon addition of ferric substrate under anaerobic conditions, where clear and saturable dependencies on the substrate concentrations following the Michaelis-Menten equation were observed. Further, we confirmed that the ferric substrate was converted to a ferrous state by using a nitroso-PSAP assay. Importantly, we observed that the ferric reductase activity of Cecytb-2 became enhanced in the phospholipid bilayer nanodisc.

Impacts of biochar on anaerobic digestion of swine manure: Methanogenesis and antibiotic resistance genes dissemination.This work aimed to study the effects of biochar on methanogenesis and antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) fate during anaerobic digestion (AD) of swine manure (SM) was investigated. Under the optimal biochar dosage of 5-10%, methane yield was significantly improved by 25%, ascribing to the enhancement of direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET). Biochar addition alleviated the need of cytochrome-c as interspecies electron connection components and enriched the microbes involved in DIET. Defluviitoga, Thermovirga and Cloacibacillus were dominant with biochar addition and might participate in DIET together with Methanothrix. The abundance of parC, tetX, bla, bla, aac(6')-Ib-cr, ermB and tetW were significantly reduced in biochar treatments and intI1 removal increased by 15% in B-5% than the control. Structural equation models demonstrated that intI1 (λ = 0.59, P < 0.001) had the most standardized direct effects on ARGs, while biochar indirectly affected ARGs by changing intI1 (λ = 0.41, P < 0.01) and microbial structure (λ = -0.24, P < 0.05).

Surrogate based Global Sensitivity Analysis of ADM1-based Anaerobic Digestion Model.In order to calibrate the model parameters, Sensitivity Analysis routines are mandatory to rank the parameters by their relevance and fix to nominal values the least influential factors. Despite the high number of works based on ADM1, very few are related to sensitivity analysis. In this study Global Sensitivity Analysis (GSA) and Uncertainty Quantification (UQ) for an ADM1-based Anaerobic Digestion Model have been performed. The modified version of ADM-based model selected in this study was presented by Esposito and co-authors in 2013. Unlike the first version of ADM1, focused on sewage sludge degradation, the model of Esposito is focused on organic fraction of municipal solid waste digestion. It his recalled that in many applications the hydrolysis is considered the bottleneck of the overall anaerobic digestion process when the input substrate is constituted of complex organic matter. In Esposito's model a surfaced based kinetic approach for the disintegration of complex organic matter is introduced. This approach allows to better model the disintegration step taking into account the effect of particle size distribution on the digestion process. This model needs thus GSA and UQ to pave the way for further improvements and reach a deep understanding of the main processes and leading input factors. Due to the large number of parameters to be analyzed a first preliminary screening analysis, with the Morris' Method, has been conducted. Since two quantities of interest (QoI) have been considered, the initial screening has been performed twice, obtaining two set of parameters containing the most influential factors in determining the value of each QoI. A surrogate of ADM1 model has been defined making use of the two defined quantities of interest. The output results from the surrogate model have been analyzed with Sobol' indices for the quantitative GSA. Finally, uncertainty quantification has been performed. By adopting kernel smoothing techniques, the Probability Density Functions of each quantity of interest have been defined.

Probiotic lactobacilli as a promising strategy to ameliorate disorders associated with intestinal inflammation induced by a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug.Damage to the small intestine caused by non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) occurs more frequently than in the upper gastrointestinal tract, is more difficult to diagnose and no effective treatments exist. Hence, we investigated whether probiotics can control the onset of this severe condition in a murine model of intestinal inflammation induced by the NSAID, indomethacin. Probiotic supplementation to mice reduce the body weight loss, anemia, shortening of the small intestine, cell infiltration into the intestinal tissue and the loss of Paneth and Goblet cells associated with intestinal inflammation. Furthermore, a high antimicrobial activity in the intestinal fluids of mice fed with probiotics compared to animals on a conventional diet was elicited against several pathogens. Interestingly, probiotics dampened the oxidative stress and several local and systemic markers of an inflammatory process, as well as increased the secretion of IL-10 by regulatory T cells. Even more importantly, probiotics induced important changes in the large intestine microbiota characterized by an increase in anaerobes and lactobacilli, and a significant decrease in total enterobacteria. We conclude that oral probiotic supplementation in NSAID-induced inflammation increases intestinal antimicrobial activity and reinforces the intestinal epithelial barrier in order to avoid pathogens and commensal invasion and maintain intestinal homeostasis.

Biofilm Models to Study the Etiology and Pathogenesis of Oral Diseases.More than 700 microbial species inhabit the complex environment of the oral cavity. For years microorganisms have been studied in pure cultures, a highly artificial situation because microorganisms in natural habitats grow as complex ecologies, termed biofilms. These resemble multicellular organisms and are characterized by their overall metabolic activity upon multiple cellular interactions. Microorganisms in biofilms express different genes than their planktonic counterparts, resulting in higher resistance to antimicrobials, different nutritional requirements, or creation of a low redox potential allowing the growth of strictly anaerobic bacteria in the presence of oxygen. Multiple in vitro biofilm models have been described in the literature so far. The main emphasis here will be on multispecies biofilm batch culture models developed in Zurich. The standard 6-species supragingival biofilm model has been used to study basic aspects of oral biofilms such as structure, social behavior, and spatial distribution of microorganisms, or diffusion properties. Numerous parameters related to the inhibition of dental plaque were tested illustrating the high reliability of the model to predict the in vivo efficiency of antimicrobials. Modifications and advancements led to a 10-species subgingival model often combined with human gingival epithelial cells, as an integral part of the oral innate immune system, eliciting various cell responses ranging from cytokine production to apoptosis. In conclusion, biofilm models enable a multitude of questions to be addressed that cannot be studied with planktonic monocultures. The Zurich in vitro biofilm models are reproducible and reliable and may be used for basic studies, but also for application-oriented questions that could not be addressed using culture techniques. Oral biofilm research will certainly lead to a more realistic assessment of the role of microorganisms in the oral cavity in health and disease. In this respect, substantial progress has been made, but there is still more to explore.

Expanding the anaerobic digestion map: A review of intermediates in the digestion of food waste.Anaerobic digestion is a promising technology as a renewable source of energy products, but these products have low economic value and process control is challenging. Identifying intermediates formed throughout the process could enhance understanding and offer opportunities for improved monitoring, control, and valorisation. In this review, intermediates present in the anaerobic digestion process are identified and discussed, including the following: volatile fatty acids, carboxylic acid, amino acids, furans, terpenes and phytochemicals. The key limitations associated with exploiting these intermediates are also addressed including challenging mixed cultures of microbiology, complex feedstocks, and difficult extraction and separation techniques.

Effects of NaOH, thermal, and combined NaOH-thermal pretreatments on the biomethane yields from the anaerobic digestion of walnut shells.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of walnut shells (WS) results in only a limited biomethane yield because of their high fibre content, which ultimately represents an essentially nonbiodegradable lignocellulosic biomass. In the present study, thermal (i.e. 50-250 °C), alkaline (i.e. 1-5% w/w NaOH) and combined alkaline-thermal (i.e. 4% w/w NaOH + 150 °C thermal) pretreatment methods have been applied to increase the anaerobic biodegradation of WS. The highest biomethane yields of 159.9 ± 6.8 mL CH.g VS and 169.8 ± 6.8 mL CH.g VS were achieved after pretreatment at both 250 °C and with 4% NaOH. After combined NaOH-thermal pretreatments, the AD process showed the largest total VFA concentration (i.e. 1280.1 mg Hac L) but a relatively high lag phase (i.e. 3.90 days) compared to thermal and NaOH pretreatments alone, from which the highest biomethane yield (i.e. 192.4 ± 8.2 mL CH.g VS ) was achieved at the end of the AD process. The highest biomethane yield from the combined NaOH-thermal pretreated WS was corroborated by the corresponding highest SCOD/TCOD ratio (i.e. 0.37 ± 0.02) and the highest lignocellulosic fibre removal (i.e. 41.1 ± 2.7% cellulose, 35.6 ± 1.8% hemicellulose, and 58.7 ± 3.2% lignin). The cumulative biomethane yields were further simulated via a modified Gompertz model. This study provides a promising strategy in the sense that the biomethane yield of WS containing large amounts of lignin can be significantly increased via thermal, NaOH, and combined NaOH-thermal pretreatment methods.

Expression of asporin reprograms cancer cells to acquire resistance to oxidative stress.Asporin (ASPN), a small leucine-rich proteoglycan expressed predominantly by cancer associated fibroblasts (CAFs), plays a pivotal role in tumor progression. ASPN is also expressed by some cancer cells, but its biological significance is unclear. Here, we investigated the effects of ASPN expression in gastric cancer cells. Overexpression of ASPN in 2 gastric cancer cell lines, HSC-43 and 44As3, led to increased migration and invasion capacity, accompanied by induction of CD44 expression and activation of Rac1 and MMP9. ASPN expression increased resistance of HSC-43 cells to oxidative stress by reducing the amount of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species. ASPN induced expression of the transcription factor HIF1α and upregulated lactate dehydrogenase A (LDHA) and PDH-E1α, suggesting that ASPN reprograms HSC-43 cells to undergo anaerobic glycolysis and suppresses ROS generation in mitochondria, which has been observed in another cell line HSC-44PE. By contrast, 44As3 cells expressed high levels of HIF1α in response to oxidant stress and escaped apoptosis regardless of ASPN expression. Examination of xenografts in the gastric wall of ASPN mice revealed that growth of HSC-43 tumors with increased micro blood vessel density was significantly accelerated by ASPN; however, ASPN increased the invasion depth of both HSC-43 and 44As3 tumors. These results suggest that ASPN has 2 distinct effects on cancer cells: HIF1α-mediated resistance to oxidative stress via reprogramming of glucose metabolism, and activation of CD44-Rac1 and MMP9 to promote cell migration and invasion. Therefore, ASPN may be a new therapeutic target in tumor fibroblasts and cancer cells in some gastric carcinomas.

Binary and ternary trace elements to enhance anaerobic digestion of cattle manure: Focusing on kinetic models for biogas production and digestate utilization.The effects of binary and ternary trace elements (TEs) (Fe/Co, Fe/Ni, and Fe/Co/Ni) on the anaerobic digestion (AD) of cattle manure were investigated using kinetic models (first-order, logistic, modified Gompertz, and Coats-Redfern) and experimental measurements. Binary and ternary TEs can significantly improve the biogas production rate and yield potential. The deviation between the predicted and measured data for biogas yield with logistic model (2.1%-5.3%) and modified Gompertz model (0.32%-2.9%) was smaller than that with first-order kinetic model (6.9%-9.9%). The Coats-Redfern model fitting indicated that the activation energy of digestates with trace elements during pyrolysis was reduced by 3.9%-26.2% compared with the control group. Meanwhile, digestates with TEs showed remarkable fertility (5.72%-5.95%). The combination of kinetic models and experimental measurements can effectively quantify the effect of TEs on AD performance and provide an informed choice for industrial production.

Mycophenolate mediated remodeling of gut microbiota and improvement of gut-brain axis in spontaneously hypertensive rats.Microbiota has a role in the host blood pressure (BP) regulation. The immunosuppressive drug mofetil mycophenolate (MMF) ameliorates hypertension. The present study analyzes whether MMF improves dysbiosis in a genetic model of hypertension. Twenty weeks old male spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and Wistar Kyoto rats (WKY) were randomly divided into three groups: untreated WKY, untreated SHR, and SHR treated with MMF for 5 weeks. MMF treatment restored gut bacteria from the phyla Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes, and acetate- and lactate-producing bacteria to levels similar to those found in WKY, increasing butyrate-producing bacteria. MMF increased the percentage of anaerobic bacteria in the gut. The improvement of gut dysbiosis was associated with an enhanced colonic integrity and a decreased sympathetic drive in the gut. MMF inhibited neuroinflammation in the paraventricular nuclei in the hypothalamus. MMF increased the lower regulatory T cells proportion in mesenteric lymph nodes and Th17 and Th1 infiltration in aorta, improved aortic endothelial function and reduced systolic BP. This study demonstrates for the first time that MMF reduces gut dysbiosis in SHR. This effect could be related to its capability to improve gut integrity due to reduced sympathetic drive in the gut associated to the reduced brain neuroinflammation.

Oxidative Damage? Not a Problem! The Characterization of Humanin-like Mitochondrial Peptide in Anoxia Tolerant Freshwater Turtles.Mitochondria was long thought to be an "end function" organelle that regulated the metabolic flux and apoptosis in the cell. However, with the discovery of the mitochondrial peptide (MDP) humanin (HN/MTRNR2), the cytoprotective and pro-survival applications of MDPs have taken the forefront of therapeutic and diagnostic research. However, the regulation of humanin-like MDPs in natural model systems that can tolerate lethal environmental and cytotoxic insults remains to be investigated. Red-eared sliders are champion anaerobes that can withstand three continuous months of anoxia followed by rapid bouts of oxygen reperfusion without incurring cellular damage. Freshwater turtles employ extensive physiological and biochemical strategies to combat anoxia, with metabolic rate depression and a global enhancement of antioxidant and cytoprotective pathways being the two most important contributors. The main aim of this study was to uncover and characterize the humanin-homologue in freshwater turtles as well as investigate the differential regulation of humanin in response to short and long-term oxygen deprivation. In this study we have used de novo and homology-based protein modelling to elucidate the putative structure of humanin in red-eared sliders as well as an ELISA and western immunoblotting to confirm the protein abundance in the turtle brain and six peripheral tissues during control, 5 h, and 20 h anoxia (n = 4/group). We found that a humanin-homologue (TSE-humanin) is present in red-eared sliders and it may play a cytoprotective role against oxidative damage.

Effect of static magnetic field on microbial community during anaerobic digestion.Dairy wastewater is characterized by high concentration of organic compounds and is commonly used for energy production. Methods for enhancement of biogas production include application of magnetizers on the digester to induce static magnetic field (SMF). The study aimed at investigation of Bacteria and Archaea communities during anaerobic digestion of model dairy wastewater exposed to SMF. Magnetic field caused a significant increase in methane production to 373.2 mL/g VS compared to 200.2 mL/g VS in a control reactor and methane content to 56.8% compared to 49.1% in a control reactor. In both reactors, the biomass was dominated by Trichococcus sp. The relative abundance of lactic acid bacteria was of about 10% higher in the reactor exposed to SMF. This higher number of Lactobacillales resulted from a higher acetate production, which additionally caused enhanced growth of Methanosarcinacaea in the reactor exposed to SMF. SMF also stimulated the growth of hydrogenotrophic methanogens.

Mind the GAP: Purification and characterization of urea resistant GAPDH during extreme dehydration.The African clawed frog (Xenopus laevis) withstands prolonged periods of extreme whole-body dehydration that lead to impaired blood flow, global hypoxia, and ischemic stress. During dehydration, these frogs shift from oxidative metabolism to a reliance on anaerobic glycolysis. In this study, we purified the central glycolytic enzyme glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) to electrophoretic homogeneity and investigated structural, kinetic, subcellular localization, and post-translational modification properties between control and 30% dehydrated X. laevis liver. GAPDH from dehydrated liver displayed a 25.4% reduction in maximal velocity and a 55.7% increase in its affinity for GAP, as compared to enzyme from hydrated frogs. Under dehydration mimicking conditions (150 mM urea and 1% PEG), GAP affinity was reduced with a K value 53.8% higher than controls. Frog dehydration also induced a significant increase in serine phosphorylation, methylation, acetylation, beta-N-acetylglucosamination, and cysteine nitrosylation, post-translational modifications (PTMs). These modifications were bioinformatically predicted and experimentally validated to govern protein stability, enzymatic activity, and nuclear translocation, which increased during dehydration. These dehydration-responsive protein modifications, however, did not appear to affect enzymatic thermostability as GAPDH melting temperatures remained unchanged when tested with differential scanning fluorimetry. PTMs could promote extreme urea resistance in dehydrated GAPDH since the enzyme from dehydrated animals had a urea I of 7.3 M, while the I from the hydrated enzyme was 5.3 M. The physiological consequences of these dehydration-induced molecular modifications of GAPDH likely suppress GADPH glycolytic functions during the reduced circulation and global hypoxia experienced in dehydrated X. laevis.

Performance prediction of ZVI-based anaerobic digestion reactor using machine learning algorithms.The use of zero-valent iron (ZVI) to enhance anaerobic digestion (AD) systems is widely advocated as it improves methane production and system stability. Accurate modeling of ZVI-based AD reactor is conducive to predicting methane production potential, optimizing operational strategy, and gathering reference information for industrial design in place of time-consuming and laborious tests. In this study, three machine learning (ML) algorithms, namely random forest (RF), extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost), and deep learning (DL), were evaluated for their feasibility of predicting the performance of ZVI-based AD reactors based on the operating parameters collected in 9 published articles. XGBoost demonstrated the highest accuracy in predicting total methane production, with a root mean squared error (RMSE) of 21.09, compared to 26.03 and 27.35 of RF and DL, respectively. The accuracy represented by mean absolute percentage error also showed the same trend, with 14.26%, 15.14% and 17.82% for XGBoost, RF and DL, respectively. Through the feature importance generated by XGBoost, the parameters of total solid of feedstock (TS), sCOD, ZVI dosage and particle size were identified as the dominant parameters that affect the methane production, with feature importance weights of 0.339, 0.238, 0.158, and 0.116, respectively. The digestion time was further introduced into the above-established model to predict the cumulative methane production. With the expansion of training dataset, DL outperformed XGBoost and RF to show the lowest RMSEs of 11.83 and 5.82 in the control and ZVI-added reactors, respectively. This study demonstrates the potential of using ML algorithms to model ZVI-based AD reactors.

Novel framework of GIS based automated monitoring process on environmental biodegradability and risk analysis using Internet of Things.A proper method on real-time monitoring of organic biomass degradation and its evaluation for safeguarding the ecosystem is the need of the hour. The work process designed in this study is to demarcate the anaerobic digestion potential using kinetic modelling and web GIS application methods. Wastewater source that causes pollution are identified through satellite maps such as solid earth, drain system, surface of earth structure, land filling and land use. The grabbed data are utilized for identifying the concentration of sludge availability. Based on literature resource multi influencing factor techniques are introduced along with overlay method to differentiate digestion potential of sludge source. This study optimizes the biodegradation potential of domestic sewage at different sludge concentrations in a pilot model operated with the samples identified through topographical drainage survey. The materialization of devices is using the Internet of Things (IoTs), that is pragmatic to be the promising tendency. Kinetic study, methanogenic assay test are performed with three different cation binding agents to find its solubilization potential and methane evolution, which is further subjected to digestion potential in anaerobic conditions for possible application in the field of environmental science. Risk analysis reveals that land filling method will have highest impact on maintaining sustainable environment. The results outcome on natural biodegradation may be used for individual house hold wastewater management for the locality.

Batch mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion of spent goat batch mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion of spent goat straw bedding and goat cheese whey: Comparison with the mono-digestion of the two sole substrates.Spent livestock bedding is a valuable resource for the production of green energy (methane) in rural areas. Comparison and evaluation of batch anaerobic digestion and co-digestion of different mixtures of goat straw bedding (SGSB) and goat cheese whey were carried out. Biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests of the 100% SGSB, 95% SGSB-5% whey, 90% SGSB-10% whey, 85% SGSB-15% whey and 100% whey were found to be 423 ± 7, 354 ± 9, 371 ± 2, 293 ± 1, 274 ± 2 mL CH g VS. Two different kinetic models were evaluated. The logistic model revealed a decrease in the maximum methane production rate (R) from 34.7 ± 1.5 to 14.1 ± 0.9 mL CH g VS·d when the percentage of whey in the mixture increased from 0 to 15% as a consequence of the increased ammonia released during the co-digestion of increased concentrations of whey. The lowest value for the maximum methane production predicted by the model (P) was found for 100% whey (274 ± 10 mL CH g VS). A two-substrate model was applied to describe the evident existence of rapid and slowly degradable material. Regarding the hydrolysis kinetic constants predicted by this model, considerable increases in the rapid biodegradation stage (k) were observed when comparing to the values found for the slow (k) biodegradation stage in all the cases tested. The increases between both constants rose from 5 to 42% when the percentage of whey increased.

Anaerobic co-digestion of oil-extracted spent coffee grounds with various wastes: Experimental and kinetic modeling studies.The effect of oil extraction from spent coffee grounds as a pre-treatment strategy prior to anaerobic digestion besides assessing the feasibility of defatted spent coffee grounds co-digestion with spent tea waste, glycerin, and macroalgae were examined. Mesophilic BMP tests were performed using defatted spent coffee grounds alongside four co-substrates in the ratio of 25, 50, and 75%, respectively. The highest methane yield was obtained with the mono-digestion of defatted spent coffee grounds with 336 ± 7 mL CH/g VS and the yield increased with the increase in the mass ratio of defatted spent coffee grounds during co-digestion. Moreover, defatted spent coffee grounds showed the highest VS and TS removal at 35.5% and 32.1%, respectively and decreased thereafter. Finally, a linear regression model for the interaction effects between substrates was demonstrated and showed that distinctly mixing defatted spent coffee grounds, spent coffee grounds, and spent tea waste outperforms other triple mixed substrates.

Influence of particle scattering on photo biochemical transformation process of direct absorption methane digester.An outdoor anaerobic fermentation reactor loses a significant amount of energy due to heat dissipation to the surrounding environment. The digester of direct absorption biogas can effectively utilize solar energy and scattering of the medium to enhance reaction temperature, which can promote anaerobic fermentation of microorganisms. A numerical model for the direct absorption methane digester was established to investigate the mechanism of photo biochemical transformation. The average relative values of simulated results were 4.1% and 9.6%, indicating that the model can effectively simulate the heat transfer process of biogas slurry under solar irradiation. Decreasing the albedo and increasing the effect of forward scattering of small particles can improve the regenerative performance and biogas production of digester. Increasing the backward scattering effect of small particles limited biogas fermentation. Scattering distribution had bigger effects on the rates of biogas and propionic acid production than those of albedo.

The effect of augmentation of biochar and hydrochar in anaerobic digestion of a model substrate.The augmentation of biochar produced at 450 and 600-650 °C and hydrochar produced at 250 °C has been investigated using biochemical methane potential experiments of cellulose. The feedstocks used for the char production included the lignocellulosic (oak wood), macroalgae (Fucus serratus) and aquatic plant (water hyacinth). Biomethane production was improved with the addition of lower-temperature biochars from oak wood (285 mL CH/g VS) and water hyacinth (294 mL CH/g VS), corresponding to 7 and 11% more than the control. The addition of these two biochars increased the methane production rate of 2.4 and 2.3 times the control, respectively. Higher temperature biochars showed no difference. Conversely, all hydrochars and macroalgae biochars augmentation reduced methane generation by 57-86 %. The chemical and structural composition of each of the chars differed significantly. Surface oxygen functionality appears to be the most important property of the biochars that improved digestion performance.

Metabolic responses to intermittent hypoxia are regulated by sex and estradiol in mice.The roles of sex and sex-hormones on the metabolic consequences of intermittent hypoxia (IH, a reliable model of sleep apnea) are unknown. We used intact male or female mice and ovariectomized (OVX) females treated with vehicle (Veh) or estradiol (E) and exposed to normoxia (Nx) or IH (6% O, 10 cycles/h, 12 h/day, 2 wk). Mice were then fasted for 6 h, and we measured fasting glucose and insulin levels and performed insulin or glucose tolerance tests (ITT or GTT). We also assessed liver concentrations of glycogen, triglycerides (TGs), and expression levels of genes involved in aerobic or anaerobic metabolism. In males, IH lowered fasting levels of glucose and insulin, slightly improved glucose tolerance, but altered glucose tolerance in females. In OVX-Veh females, IH reduced fasting glucose and insulin levels and strongly impaired glucose tolerance. E supplementation reversed these effects and improved homeostasis model assessment of β-cell function (HOMA-β), a marker of pancreatic glucose-induced insulin released. IH decreased liver TG concentration in males and slightly increased glycogen in OVX-Veh females. Liver expression of glycolytic () and mitochondrial (citrate synthase, ) genes was reduced by IH in males and in OVX-Veh females, but not in intact or OVX-E females. We conclude that ) IH reduced fasting levels of glycemia in males and in ovariectomized females. ) IH improves glucose tolerance only in males. ) In females IH decreased glucose tolerance, this effect was amplified by ovariectomy, and reversed by E supplementation. ) During IH exposures, E supplementation appears to improve pancreatic β cells functions. We assessed fasting glycemic control, and tolerance to insulin and glucose in male and female mice exposed to intermittent hypoxia. IH improves glucose tolerance in males but had opposite effects in females. This response was amplified following ovariectomy in females and prevented by estradiol supplementation. Metabolic consequences of IH differ between males and females and are regulated by estradiol in female mice.

A modelling study of the spatially heterogeneous mutualism between electroactive biofilm and planktonic bacteria.Microbial cooperation widely exists in anaerobic reactors degrading complex pollutants, conventionally studied separately inside the biofilm or the planktonic community. Recent experiments discovered the mutualism between the planktonic bacteria and electroactive biofilm treating propionate, an end-product usually accumulated in anaerobic digesters. Here, a one-dimensional multispecies model found the preference on acetate-based pathway over the hydrogen-based in such community, evidenced by the fact that acetate-originated current takes 66% of the total value and acetate-consuming anode-respiring bacteria takes over 80% of the biofilm. Acetate-based anodic respiration most apparently influences biofilm function while propionate fermentation is the dominant planktonic bio-reaction. Additionally, initial planktonic propionate level shows the ability of coordinating the balance between these two extracellular electron transfer pathways. Increasing the propionate concentration from 2 to 50 mM would increase the steady hydrogen-originated current by 210% but decrease the acetate-originated by 26%, suggesting a vital influence of the planktonic microbial process to the metabolic balance in biofilm. Best strategy to promote the biofilm activity is to increase the biomass density and biofilm conductivity simultaneously, which would increase the current density by 875% without thickening the biofilm thickness or prolonging the growth apparently.

Thermophilic Solid-State Anaerobic Digestion of Corn Straw, Cattle Manure, and Vegetable Waste: Effect of Temperature, Total Solid Content, and C/N Ratio.Thermophilic solid-state anaerobic digestion (SS-AD) of agricultural wastes, i.e., corn straw, cattle manure, and vegetable waste, was carried out in this study. The effects of temperature (40-60°C), initial solid content (ISC, 17.5-32.5%), and C/N ratio (15-32 : 1) on biogas production were evaluated using a Box-Behnken experimental design (BBD) combined with response surface methodology (RSM). The results showed that optimization of process parameters is important to promote the SS-AD performance. All the factors, including interactive terms (except the ISC), were significant in the quadratic model for biogas production with SS-AD. Among the three operation parameters, the C/N ratio had the largest effect on biogas production, followed by temperature, and a maximum biogas yield of 241.4 mL gVS could be achieved at 47.3°C, ISC = 24.81%, and C/N = 22.35. After 20 d of SS-AD, the microbial community structure under different conditions was characterized by high-throughput sequencing, showing that , , , and  dominated the bacterial community, and that  had a competitive advantage over  at elevated temperatures. The biogas production values and relative abundance of  and  after 20 d of SS-AD can be fitted well using a quadratic model, implying that  and  play important roles in the methanogenic metabolism for agricultural waste thermophilic SS-AD.

Spatial heterogeneity of bacterial colonization across different gut segments following inter-species microbiota transplantation.The microbiota presents a compartmentalized distribution across different gut segments. Hence, the exogenous microbiota from a particular gut segment might only invade its homologous gut location during microbiota transplantation. Feces as the excreted residue contain most of the large-intestinal microbes but lack small-intestinal microbes. We speculated that whole-intestinal microbiota transplantation (WIMT), comprising jejunal, ileal, cecal, and colonic microbiota, would be more effective for reshaping the entire intestinal microbiota than conventional fecal microbiota transplantation fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT).
We modeled the compartmentalized colonization of the gut microbiota via transplanting the microbiota from jejunum, ileum, cecum, and colon, respectively, into the germ-free mice. Transplanting jejunal or ileal microbiota induced more exogenous microbes' colonization in the small intestine (SI) of germ-free mice rather than the large intestine (LI), primarily containing Proteobacteria, Lactobacillaceae, and Cyanobacteria. Conversely, more saccharolytic anaerobes from exogenous cecal or colonic microbiota, such as Bacteroidetes, Prevotellaceae, Lachnospiraceae, and Ruminococcaceae, established in the LI of germ-free mice that received corresponding intestinal segmented microbiota transplantation. Consistent compartmentalized colonization patterns of microbial functions in the intestine of germ-free mice were also observed. Genes related to nucleotide metabolism, genetic information processing, and replication and repair were primarily enriched in small-intestinal communities, whereas genes associated with the metabolism of essential nutrients such as carbohydrates, amino acids, cofactors, and vitamins were mainly enriched in large-intestinal communities of germ-free mice. Subsequently, we compared the difference in reshaping the community structure of germ-free mice between FMT and WIMT. FMT mainly transferred LI-derived microorganisms and gene functions into the recipient intestine with sparse SI-derived microbes successfully transplanted. However, WIMT introduced more SI-derived microbes and associated microbial functions to the recipient intestine than FMT. Besides, WIMT also improved intestinal morphological development as well as reduced systematic inflammation responses of recipients compared with FMT.
Segmented exogenous microbiota transplantation proved the spatial heterogeneity of bacterial colonization along the gastrointestinal tract, i.e., the microbiota from one specific location selectively colonizes its homologous gut region. Given the lack of exogenous small-intestinal microbes during FMT, WIMT may be a promising alternative for conventional FMT to reconstitute the microbiota across the entire intestinal tract. Video Abstract.

Microbial invasions in sludge anaerobic digesters.Among processes that control microbial community assembly, microbial invasion has received little attention until recently, especially in the field of anaerobic digestion. However, knowledge of the principles regulating the taxonomic and functional stability of microbial communities is key to truly develop better predictive models and effective management strategies for the anaerobic digestion process. To date, available studies focus on microbial invasions in digesters feed with activated sludge from municipal wastewater treatment plants. Herein, this review summarizes the importance of invasions for anaerobic digestion management, the ecological theories about microbial invasions, the traits of activated sludge microorganisms entering the digesters, and the resident communities of anaerobic reactors that are relevant for invasions and the current knowledge about the success and impacts of invasions, and discusses the research needs on this topic. The initial data indicate that the impact of invasions is low and only a small percentage of the mostly aerobic microorganisms present in the activated sludge feed are able to become stablished in the anaerobic digesters. However, there are still numerous unknowns about microbial invasions in anaerobic digestion including the influence of anaerobic feedstocks or process perturbances that new approaches on microbial ecology could unveil. KEY POINTS: • Microbial invasions are key processes to develop better strategies for digesters management. • Knowledge on pathogen invasions can improve anaerobic digestion microbial safety. • To date, the number of successful invasions on anaerobic digesters from activated sludge organisms is low. • Feed organisms detected in digesters are mostly inactive residual populations. • Need to expand the range of invaders and operational scenarios studied.

Anaerobic digestibility of resin acids in primary sludge: Effect of ozone pretreatment.Resin acids in pulp and paper mills wastewater are potentially partitioned in the solids in post-primary clarification due to higher hydrophobicity with log K ∼1.74-5.80. They are known to adversely affect anaerobic digestion (AD) process, although the effect has not been quantified deterministically in control studies. The objective of the present work was to determine the effect of untreated and ozonated spiked resin acids on AD of primary sludge. Batch adsorption tests were conducted to determine the solid-liquid partition coefficient (K) of resin acids on the primary sludge. Higher K was obtained at pH 4; however, it was decreased by 78-98% at pH 8. Thereafter, batch AD of model resin acids in primary sludge using food to microorganism ratio (S/X) of 0.5gtCOD/gVSSindicated only 15-20% removal of resin acids in the liquid phase anaerobically. While, ozonation in pure water using 0.74-1.48 mg O/mg tCOD showed >90% reduction of the test resin acids, an ozone dose of 0.52 mg O/mg tCOD reduced 50-70% spiked resin acids' load to the digester. However, no further removal of resin acids occurred during AD over 30 days. About 42% reduction in methane production compared to the control digestor occurred in the presence of 150 mg/L of resin acids. When treated with 0.52 mg O/mg tCOD, methane production improved and was comparable to the control digestor, indicating that resin acids may not be detrimental to AD at a concentration range of 45-75 mg/L.

Formation and partitioning behaviour of perfluoroalkyl acids (PFAAs) in waste activated sludge during anaerobic digestion.The formation and fate of perfluoroalkyl acids (PFAAs) in sludge during anaerobic digestion (AD) is of global importance since the sludge is a significant source of PFAAs to the environment. The formation of PFAAs from polyfluorinated compounds, namely PFAA precursors, is poorly understood in AD. This study aims to investigate the formation of PFAAs from precursors and their partitioning behaviour in waste activated sludge (WAS) during AD process. To achieve this, three isotope-labelled PFAAs were spiked and monitored along with indigenous PFAAs and precursors over eight weeks in a laboratory-scale anaerobic digester, fed with sludge from a local wastewater treatment plant and operated with a hydraulic retention time of 12 days under 35 ℃. In addition to isotope-labelled PFAAs, twelve native PFAAs and eight polyfluorinated compounds were detected in the feed and digested sludges. A mass-balance model, validated by the spiking experiment, was applied to predict the concentrations of PFAAs and precursors assuming no formation/degradation in AD. The measured concentrations of short-chain PFAAs (perfluoroalkyl carboxylates (PFCAs): C < 8; perfluoroalkane sulfonates (PFSAs): C < 6) in the AD sludge were significantly (p < 0.05) higher than the model-predicted concentrations, indicating the formation of these PFAAs from precursors in AD. In contrast, the formation of long-chain PFAAs (PFCAs: C ≥ 8; PFSAs: C ≥ 6) was not observed. Moreover, the degradation of two polyfluoroalkyl phosphates (PAPs) (6:2 PAP and 6:2/8:2 diPAP) occurred, evidenced by their measured concentrations that were statistically lower than the mass-balance predictions. Further, the AD process reduced the amount of PFAAs absorbed/adsorbed to sludge, particularly for the long-chain ones, due to the breakdown of solids.

Monitoring the Diversity and Metabolic Shift of Gut Microbes during Green Tea Feeding in an In Vitro Human Colonic Model.The human gut microbiome plays an important role in human health, and many factors such as environment, host genetics, age, and diet have been found to influence the microbial composition. Tea, as one of the widely consumed beverages, has been known for centuries to have antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anticancer effects. To investigate the impact of green tea polyphenol on the diversity and metabolic functions of human gut microbes, we applied an in vitro human colonic model (HCM) in this study to mimic a short-term green tea ingestion event and investigate its related changes to gut microbial composition and their metabolic functions. The pH, temperature, anaerobic environment, feeding nutrient, and time point in each compartment of the HCM were tightly controlled to simulate the intestinal system, and pooled human fecal samples of two healthy volunteers were used for the colon microbiota inoculation within the colonic model. By adding green tea extract (GTE) to the growth medium, the detailed impacts of GTE polyphenol on gut microbial population/diversity, gut microbial metabolites, metabolic pathways, and their associations were investigated via 16 S ribosomal DNA sequencing and liquid chromatography coupled tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analyses. Our data indicated that the treatment of green tea extract applied to gut microbiota can induce a significant decrease in the abundance of  and a slight decrease in the abundance of , and these changes result in a decreased  ratio, which can be an effective indicator for successful GTE intervention, which may generate beneficial health effect to human. Meanwhile, the relative abundances of many detected bacteria genera among three HCM vessels changed through the GTE intervention. The overall effects of GTE on gut microbial beta-diversity were observed by multivariate statistical analyses, and the differences in metabolic profiles from different GTE treatment stages were detected. Moreover, we identified several associations between microbial population and microbial metabolites, which may assist us in establishing new hypotheses for future related studies. In summary, our study suggested that the microbial compositional changes induced by GTE also changed their metabolic functions, and consequentially, may change the host metabolism and impact human health.

Addition of a carbon fiber brush improves anaerobic digestion compared to external voltage application.Two methods were examined to improve methane production efficiency in anaerobic digestion (AD) based on adding a large amount of surface area using a single electrically conductive carbon brush, or by adding electrodes as done in microbial electrolysis cells (MECs) to form a hybrid AD-MEC. To examine the impact of surface area relative to electrodes, AD reactors were fitted with a single large brush without electrodes (FB), half a large brush with two electrodes with an applied voltage (0.8 V) and operated in closed circuit (HB-CC) or open circuit (HB-OC) mode, or only two electrodes with a closed circuit and no large brush (NB-CC) (equivalent to an MEC). The three configurations with a half or full brush all had improved performance as shown by 57-82% higher methane generation rate parameters in the Gompertz model compared to NB-CC. The retained biomass was much higher in the reactors with large brush, which likely contributed to the rapid consumption of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) and therefore improved AD performance. A different microbial community structure was formed in the large-size brushes compared to the electrodes. Methanothrix was predominant in the biofilm of large-size carbon brush, while Geobacter (anode) and Methanobacterium (cathode) were highly abundant in the electrode biofilms. These results demonstrate that adding a high surface area carbon fiber brush will be a more effective method of improving AD performance than using MEC electrodes with an applied voltage.

Performance evaluation and kinetic modeling of down-flow high-rate anaerobic bioreactors for poultry slaughterhouse wastewater treatment.In this study, the treatment of poultry slaughterhouse wastewater (PSW) was evaluated using two new down-flow high-rate anaerobic bioreactor systems (HRABS), including the down-flow expanded granular bed reactor (DEGBR) and the static granular bed reactor (SGBR). These two bioreactors have demonstrated a good performance for the treatment of PSW with removal percentages of the biochemical oxygen demand (BOD), the chemical oxygen demand (COD), and fats, oil, and grease (FOG) exceeding 95% during peak performance days. This performance of down-flow HRABS appears as a breakthrough in the field of anaerobic treatment of medium to high-strength wastewater because down-flow anaerobic bioreactors have been neglected for the high-rate anaerobic treatment of such wastewater due to the success of up-flow anaerobic reactors such as the UASB and the EGSB as a result of the granulation of a consortium of anaerobic bacteria required for efficient anaerobic digestion and biogas production. Hence, to promote the recourse to such technologies and provide further explanation to their performance, this study approached the kinetic analysis of these two down-flow HRABS using the modified Stover-Kincannon and the Grau second-order multi-component substrate models. From a comparison between the two models investigated, the modified Stover-Kincannon model provided the best prediction for the concentration of the substrate in the effluent from the two HRABS. This analysis led to the determination of the kinetic parameters of the two models that can be used for the design of the two HRABS and the prediction of the performance of the SGBR and DEGBR. The kinetic parameters determined using the Modified Stover-Kincannon were Umax = 40.5 gCOD/L.day and K = 47.3 gCOD/L.day for the DEGBR and U = 33.6 gCOD/L.day and K = 44.9 gCOD/L.day for the SGBR; while, using the Grau second-order model, the kinetic models determined were a = 0.058 and b = 1.112 for the DEGBR and a = 0.135 and b = 1.33 for the SGBR.

Effect of a new variable integration on steady states of a two-step Anaerobic Digestion Model.This paper deals with a mathematical analysis of two-steps model of anaerobic digestion process, including dynamics of soluble microbial products (SMP). We propose to investigate effects of the new variable SMP on qualitative properties of the process in different generic cases. Equilibria of the model are graphically established considering qualitative properties of the kinetics and, their stability are proved theoretically and/or verified by numerical simulations. It will shown that the model has a rich qualitative behavior as equilibria bifurcation and multi-stability according to the considered bifurcation parameter.

A Model for Bioaugmented Anaerobic Granulation.Anaerobic granular sludge comprises of highly organized microorganisms with a sophisticated metabolic network. Such aggregates can withstand storage, temperature fluctuations and changes in the substrate supplied for anaerobic digestion. However, substrate change leads to long adaptation of granular consortia, creating lags in the reactor operations. To speed up adaptation and increase digestion efficiency, bioaugmentation with a robust consortium can be performed. The computational study described here aims to elucidate the mechanisms of bioaugmenting anaerobic granules, utilizing the current body of knowledge on metabolic and biochemical interactions between bacteria in such aggregates. Using a  simulation environment, an agent-based model was developed to describe bioaugmentation for adaptation of cellobiose-degrading granular consortium to a lipid-rich feed. Lipolytic bacteria were successfully incorporated  to the stable granular consortia after 40 days of simulation. The ratio of cellobiose and the lipid-derivative, oleate, in the feed played key role to ensure augmentation. At 0.5 g/L of both cellobiose and oleate in the feed, a homogeneous stable augmented consortium was formed and converted the given amount of substrate to 10.9 mg/L of methane as a final product of anaerobic digestion. The demonstrated model can be used as a planning tool for anaerobic digestion facilities considering transition of the inoculum to a new type of feed.

The effects of solid lignin on the anaerobic digestion of microcrystalline cellulose and application of smoothing splines for extended data analysis of its inhibitory effects.Lignocellulose is an abundant substrate for biogas production; however, for efficient utilization, proper pre-treatment is required to enhance the biomethane yield and hydrolysis rate significantly. Phenolic compounds from dissolved lignin, produced during alkali pre-treatment, have inhibitory effects on the anaerobic digestion; however, the possible inhibitory effects of solid lignin have not gathered enough interest. Especially, the effect of solid lignin on methanogenesis remains a knowledge gap. In this study, kraft lignin was used as a model solid lignin substrate for its co-digestion with microcrystalline cellulose. A new approach of modelling biomethane production curves using smoothing splines was developed to describe the long-term inhibitory effects of solid lignin on hydrolysis and methanogenesis. The method gives possibility to describe long-term inhibitory effects by using batch instead of continuous test data. Results revealed that kraft lignin showed mild inhibitory effects on methanogens. However lignin impact combined with volatile fatty accumulation can prolong hydrolysis and reactor recovery start-up by 47.3% and 75.3%, respectively. For small dosages of solid lignin adaptation of methanogens is possible.

Quantification and Comparison of Risks Associated with Wastewater Use in Spray Irrigation.In the U.S., spray irrigation is the most common method used in agriculture and supplementing with animal wastewater has the potential to reduce water demands. However, this could expose individuals to respiratory pathogens such as Legionella pneumophila and nontuberculosis Mycobacteria (NTM). Disinfection with methods like anaerobic digestion is an option but can increase concentrations of cytotoxic ammonia (personal communication). Our study aimed to model the annual risks of infection from these bacterial pathogens and the air concentrations of ammonia and determine if anaerobically digesting this wastewater is a safe option. Air dispersion modeling, conducted in AERMOD, generated air concentrations of water during the irrigation season (May-September) for the years 2013-2018. These values fed into the quantitative microbial risk assessments for the bacteria and allowed calculation of ammonia air concentrations. The outputs of these models were compared to the safety thresholds of 10 infections/year and 0.5 mg/m , respectively, to determine their potential for negative health outcomes. It was determined that infection from NTM was not a concern for individuals near active spray irrigators, but that infection with L. pneumophila could be a concern, with a maximum predicted annual risk of infection of 3.5 × 10 infections/year and 25.2% of parameter combinations exceeding the established threshold. Ammonia posed a minor risk, with 1.5% of parameter combinations surpassing the risk threshold of 0.5 mg/m . These findings suggest that animal wastewater should be anaerobically digested prior to use in irrigation to remove harmful pathogens.

Lactococcocus lactis
Hsp65-Producing  Prevents Antigen-Induced Arthritis in Mice.Oral tolerance is the physiological process that enables the immune system to differentiate between harmless dietary and microbiota antigens from pathogen derived antigens. It develops at the mucosal surfaces and can result in local and systemic regulatory and anti-inflammatory effects. Translation of these benefits to the clinical practice faces limitations involving specificity and doses of antigen as well as regimens of feeding. To circumvent these problems, we developed a recombinant Hsp65 delivered by the acid lactic bacteria  NCDO 2118 directy in the intestinal mucosa. Hsp65 is a ubiquitous protein overexpressed in inflamed tissues and capable of inducing immunoregulatory mechanisms.  has probiotic properties and is commonly and safely used in dairy products. In this study, we showed that continuous delivery of HSP65 in the gut mucosa by  is a potent tolerogenic stimulus inducing regulatory CD4LAP T cells that prevented collagen-induced and methylated bovine serum albumin-induced arthritis in mice. Clinical and histological signs of arthritis were inhibited as well as levels of inflammatory cytokines such as IL-17 and IFN-γ, serum titers of anti-collagen antibodies and rheumatoid factor. Oral administration of  induced alterations in microbiota composition toward an increased abundance of anaerobic bacteria such as  and . Tolerance to HSP65 and arthritis prevention induced by the recombinant  was associated with increase in IL-10 production by B cells and it was dependent on LAP T cells, IL-10 and TLR2 signaling. Therefore, HSP65-producing treatment induced effective tolerance and prevented arthritis development suggesting it can be used as a therapeutic tool for autoimmune diseases.

Modeling anaerobic digestion metabolic pathways for antibiotic-contaminated wastewater treatment.Anaerobic digestion has been used to treat antibiotic-contaminated wastewaters. However, it is not always effective, since biodegradation is the main removal mechanism and depends on the compound chemical characteristics and on how microbial metabolic pathways are affected by the reactor operational conditions and hydrodynamic characteristics. The aim of this study was to develop a mathematical model to describe 16 metabolic pathways of an anaerobic process treating sulfamethazine-contaminated wastewater. Contois kinetics and a useful reaction volume term were used to represent the biomass concentration impact on bed porosity in a N continuously stirred tank modeling approach. Two sulfamethazine removal hypotheses were evaluated: an apparent enzymatic reaction and a cometabolic degradation. Additionally, long-term modeling was developed to describe how the operational conditions affected the performance of the process. The best degradation correlations were associated with the consumption of carbohydrates, proteins and it was inversely related to acetic acid production during acidogenesis.

Optimization and comparison of methane production and residual characteristics in mesophilic anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge by hydrothermal treatment.Anaerobic digestion is the preferred method for treating sewage sludge because of its ability to reduce sludge volume and produce biogas. However, conventional anaerobic digestion has a long retention time and low degradation rate. In recent years, hydrothermal treatment has been used to improve the hydrolysis of sewage sludge and biogas production. This process tends to focus on maximizing biogas production. However, very little research has been done on anaerobic digestion residues. In this study, batch experiments were conducted to investigate the effect of hydrothermal temperature on methane production and the contents of liquid fraction after anaerobic digestion (centrate). Experimental conditions were designed using a response surface method and central composite model. A quadratic equation was used to interpret the individual and interactive effects of hydrothermal conditions on anaerobic digestion. Given the maximum biogas production and the minimum concentrate concentration, the optimal operating condition was determined by a 186 °C hydrothermal temperature and a reaction time of 106 min. Under these conditions, the following results could be obtained: methane production (200.5 ± 7.7 mL-CH/gVS), TCOD (16,572 ± 348 mg/L), sCOD (1240 ± 65 mg/L), sTN (658.9 ± 8.0 mg/L) and ammonia (525 ± 27 mg/L).

Synergistic Effects of Anaerobic Co-Digestion of Pretreated Corn Stover with Chicken Manure and Its Kinetics.The pretreatment effects and synergistic effects of anaerobic co-digestion of pretreated corn stover (CS) with chicken manure (CM) were studied. Results showed that the NaOH-HO pretreatment effect on CS was better than urea pretreatment in terms of anaerobic digestion promotion. The highest cumulative methane yield of 332.7 mL/g VS added was obtained from the CS (NaOH-HO pretreated)/CM ratio of 1:3, and the highest cumulative methane yield of 319.7 mL/g VS added was obtained from the CS (urea pretreated)/CM ratio of 1:2. Synergistic effects were found in CS (NaOH-HO pretreated)/CM ratios of 2:1, 1:2, 1:3 and CS (urea pretreated)/CM ratios of 1:1, 1:2. Synergistic effect was not found at CS (unpretreated)/CM ratios of 1:2 and 1:3. Pretreatment of CS can produce synergistic effect on anaerobic co-digestion and increase cumulative methane yield by 6.54-24.65%. Among the four kinetic models, modified Gompertz model was best fitted in describing the methane production during anaerobic co-digestion (R = 0.9845-0.9988).

Co-Digestion Biomethane Production and the Effect of Nanoparticle: Kinetics Modeling and Microcalorimetry Studies.To improve the production rate of methane, powder-activated carbon (PAC), granule activated carbon (GAC), titanium dioxide-anatase (TiO), and synthesized zeolite (permutit) were added in the co-digestion process. The co-substrates were corn stover (CS) and pig manure (PM) mixed in the ratio of 1:2 (w/w). The kinetic analysis model and ADM1da model were applied to obtain the kinetic parameters of the process. Besides, the heat flow analysis of the co-digestion process was determined using isothermal microcalorimetry. The addition of the PAC, GAC, TiO, and synthesized zeolite improved the methane cumulative yield by 40.12, 31.25, 31.17, and 43.74% respectively, as compared with the control reactor. The kinetic analysis and ADM1da model results indicated that the overall rate constant of the co-digestion process increased by 1.5 times averagely because of the effect of these materials. It was also observed that much higher heat energy released from the experimental sample compared with the control reactor, which indicated that the improvement of the metabolic process of the AcoD system. The addition of TiO-anatase improved methane production by 31.17%, which could be a promising method to improve the biomethane in a large-scale due to its availability and accessibility.

Size Shapes the Active Microbiome of Methanogenic Granules, Corroborating a Biofilm Life Cycle.Methanogenic archaea are key players in cycling organic matter in nature but also in engineered waste treatment systems, where they generate methane, which can be used as a renewable energy source. In such systems in the built environment, complex methanogenic consortia are known to aggregate into highly organized, spherical granular biofilms comprising the interdependent microbial trophic groups mediating the successive stages of the anaerobic digestion (AD) process. This study separated methanogenic granules into a range of discrete size fractions, hypothesizing different biofilm growth stages, and separately supplied each with specific substrates to stimulate the activity of key AD trophic groups, including syntrophic acid oxidizers and methanogens. Rates of specific methanogenic activity were measured, and amplicon sequencing of 16S rRNA gene transcripts was used to resolve phylotranscriptomes across the series of size fractions. Increased rates of methane production were observed in each of the size fractions when hydrogen was supplied as the substrate compared with those of volatile fatty acids (acetate, propionate, and butyrate). This was connected to a shift toward hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis dominated by  and  Interestingly, the specific active microbiomes measured in this way indicated that size was significantly more important than substrate in driving the structure of the active community in granules. Multivariate integration studywise discriminant analysis identified 56 genera shaping changes in the active community across both substrate and size. Half of those were found to be upregulated in the medium-sized granules, which were also the most active and potentially of the most important size, or life stage, for precision management of AD systems. Biological wastewater conversion processes collectively constitute one of the single biggest worldwide applications of microbial communities. There is an obvious requirement, therefore, to study the microbial systems central to the success of such technologies. Methanogenic granules, in particular, are architecturally fascinating biofilms that facilitate highly organized cooperation within the metabolic network of the anaerobic digestion (AD) process and, thus, are especially intriguing model systems for microbial ecology. This study, in a way not previously reported, provoked syntrophic and methanogenic activity and the structure of the microbial community, using specific substrates targeting the key trophic groups in AD. Unexpectedly, granule size more strongly than substrate shaped the active portion of the microbial community. Importantly, the findings suggest the size, or age, of granules inherently shapes the active microbiome linked to a life cycle. This provides exciting insights into the function of, and the potential for additional modeling of biofilm development in, methanogenic granules.

Evaluation of Green Coffee-Roasting Biogas with Modeling Valorization of Possible Solutions.According to the European Union Directive 2009/28/EC, the goals of obtaining 20% of all energy requirements from renewable sources and a 20% reduction in primary energy use must be fulfilled by 2020. In this work, an evaluation was performed, from the environmental and energy point of view, of anaerobic digestion as a valid solution for the treatment of the byproducts obtained from the coffee-roasting process. In particular, thermophilic anaerobic digestion tests were carried out. Output values from the laboratory were used as input for the MCBioCH model to evaluate the produced flow of biogas and biomethane and two different biogas valorization alternatives, namely, the traditional exploitation of biogas for heat/energy production and biomethane conversion. The results of the preliminary simulation showed that a full-scale implementation of the coffee waste biogas production process is technically feasible and environmentally sustainable. Furthermore, the performed analysis validates a general methodology for energy production compatibility planning.

Effect of proton pump inhibitor on microbial community, function, and kinetics in anaerobic digestion with ammonia stress.The proton pump is a convincing mechanism for ammonia inhibition in anaerobic digestion, which explained how the ammonia accumulated intercellularly due to diffusion of free ammonia. Proton pump inhibitor (PPI) was dosed for mitigating the accumulation in anaerobic digestion with ammonia stress, with respect to kinetics. Results show PPI inhibited β-oxidation of fatty acids by targeting ATPase in anaerobic digestion with ammonia stress. Alternatively, PPI stimulated syntrophic acetate oxidization. Random forest located key genera as syntrophic consortia. Methane increased 18.72 ± 7.39% with 20 mg/L PPI at the first peak, consistent with microbial results. The deterministic Gompertz kinetics and stochastic Gaussian processes contributed 97.63 ± 8.93% and 2.37 ± 8.93% in accumulated methane production, respectively. Thus, the use of PPI for anaerobic digestion allowed mitigate ammonia inhibition based on the mechanism of proton pump, facilitate intercellularly ammonia accumulation, stimulate syntrophic consortia, and eliminate uncertainty of process failure, which resulted in efficient methane production under ammonia stress.

Cardiopulmonary Exercise Testing Versus Frailty, Measured by the Clinical Frailty Score, in Predicting Morbidity in Patients Undergoing Major Abdominal Cancer Surgery.The primary outcome of this study is to investigate the association between the cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) variables: anaerobic threshold (AT), peak oxygen uptake (VO peak), peak work rate (WR), ventilatory equivalence of CO (VE/VCO) at the anaerobic threshold (AT) with frailty, measured by the clinical frailty scale (CFS) in patients planned to undergo major abdominal cancer surgery. The secondary outcome is to compare the CPET variables (VO peak, peak WR, VE/VCO at AT) with frailty measured by the CFS in predicting postoperative surgical morbidity in patients following major abdominal cancer surgery.
This study was a single-centre prospective cohort analysis of consecutive adult patients undergoing CPET and CFS scoring as part of their pre-operative work-up for major abdominal cancer surgery.
A total of n = 317 patients underwent CPET and CFS assessment ahead of planned abdominal oncological surgery. Negative correlations were observed between the CPET variables: AT - 0.42 p < 0.01; VO peak - 0.53 p < 0.01; peak WR - 0.54 p < 0.01 with CFS scores and a positive correlation between CFS scores and VE/VCO 0.29 p < 0.01. Only CFS remained statistically significant in a multivariate model OR 2.11 (1.42-3.15) 95% CI associated with Clavien-Dindo (CD) ≥ 1 defined morbidity including the significant univariate variables (VO peak, peak WR and CFS scores). No variables were associated with CD ≥ 3 morbidity.
In patients scheduled to have major abdominal cancer surgery there was a weak association between poor performance on CPET and increasing frailty measured by the CFS. The CFS score unlike CPET was associated with all post-operative morbidity, but not major complications alone, in these patients. This suggests that CFS may be used as a less expensive alternative to CPET for predicting any postoperative morbidity in major abdominal cancer surgery.

The bio-chemical cycle of iron and the function induced by ZVI addition in anaerobic digestion: A review.Zero-valent iron (ZVI) is known to be an additive in facilitating waste treatment and improving biogas production in anaerobic digestion (AD) systems. This review concentrates on the chemical cycle of iron as well as the function of the iron cycle in the removal of four kinds of pollutants: organic carbon, nitrogen, sulphur and phosphorus, which are commonly encountered in waste treatment. In recent studies, the addition of ZVI to an AD system promoted the in-situ production of CH from CO, enabling carbon capture through biotechnology. Additionally, using iron-carbon microbial electrolytic cells in AD systems in order to accelerate electron transport, as well as specific pollutant degradation mechanisms, are illustrated in the present study. Particularly, the main factors affecting the removal efficiency of contaminants in a ZVI-AD system such as pH, VFA/ Alkalinity (ALK), oxidation-reduction potential and particle size are reviewed. According to the above characteristics, combined with technical model and economic analyses, an AD system based on ZVI was considered to be an economical, efficient and carbon-neutral pollutant treatment technology. Accordingly, Iron-based AD is suggested to be a promising and sustainable approach orientated to a circular economy, which may be applied to many waste treatments fields.

Zero-valent iron enhanced in-situ advanced anaerobic digestion for the removal of antibiotics and antibiotic resistance genes in sewage sludge.The in-situ advanced anaerobic digestion (AAD) enhanced with zero-valent iron powder (ZVI) under mesophilic condition was investigated to remove 5 antibiotics (sulfamerazine (SMR), sulfamethoxazole (SMZ), ofloxacin (OFL), tetracycline (TC), and roxithromycin (ROX)) and 11 antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) (AAC (6')-IB-CR, qnrS, ermF, ermT, ermX, sul1, sul2, sul3, tetA, tetB, and tetG) in sewage sludge. The effects of different ZVI dosages, antibiotic concentrations, and solid retention time (SRTs) on the removal were explored. Also, the correlation coefficient of antibiotics and ARGs, microbial community structure, biogas production and methane yield were analyzed. All conducted treatments operated stably, and the modified Gompertz model described the cumulative methane yield well. The antibiotics, with the exception of OFL, were effectively removed in the sewage sludge at a dosage of 1000 mg/L ZVI, SRT 20 d, and an antibiotic concentration of 20 μg/L during AAD. The removal rates of SMZ, SMR, TC, and ROX reached 97.39%, 74.54%, 78.61%, and 56.58%, respectively. AAC (6')-IB-CR and tetB could be effectively reduced during the in-situ AAD. Through the redundancy analysis, AAC (6')-IB-CR, ermT, ermX, sul2, tetB, and tetG had strong positive correlations with the antibiotics in the reactor. The principle component analysis revealed that the community structure was similar when the SRT was 10 d and 20 d at the same amount of ZVI and antibiotic concentrations in the sludge. Under the operating parameters of 1000 mg/L ZVI dosage, SRT 20 d, and an antibiotic concentration of 20 μg/L, Erysipelotrichia, Verrucomicrobia, Clostridia, Caldiserica, and Alphaproteobacteria of the class were dominated microorganisms in the anaerobic digestion.

Effect of ozone pretreatment on characteristics of dissolved organic matter formed in aerobic and anaerobic digestion of waste-activated sludge.The characteristics of dissolved organic matter (DOM) formed in aerobic and anaerobic digestion of waste-activated sludge (WAS) after ozone pretreatment were investigated with three ozone dosages (4.72, 10.96, and 13.8 mg O/min) and four ozonation times (0, 10, 20, and 30 min) using six aerobic and six anaerobic digestion reactors. High decreasing rate of volatile suspended solid/total suspended solid indicated enhanced destruction of volatile solids and efficient sludge reduction. The results of TOC and UV absorbance indicated that increasing ozone dosage and time significantly enhanced hydrolysis and degradation of DOM. Data analysis with a first-order sequential reaction model revealed that, for aerobic digestion, k increased in the range of 0.00049-0.00154 day; and for anaerobic digestion of WAS, k increased in the range of 0.00302-0.00796 day and k increased in the range of 0.24910-0.54548 day. Detailed analysis of the composition of DOM showed that ozone pretreatment increased irreversible membrane resistance (IMR) and enhanced the breakdown of large DOM molecules, the formation of aromatic proteins, and tryptophan- and tyrosine-aromatic amino acids, as well as the accumulation of humic acid- and fulvic acid-like substances.

A comprehensive review of the recent development and challenges of a solar-assisted biodigester system.The extensive use of fossil fuels and the environmental effect of their combustion products have attracted researchers to look into renewable energy sources. In addition, global mass production of waste has motivated communities to recycle and reuse the waste in a sustainable way to lower landfill waste and associated problems. The development of waste to energy (WtE) technology including the production of bioenergy, e.g. biogas produced from various waste through Anaerobic Digestion (AD), is considered one of the potential measures to achieve the sustainable development goals of the United Nations (UN). Therefore, this study reviews the most recent studies from relevant academic literature on WtE technology (particularly AD technology) for biogas production and the application of a solar-assisted biodigester (SAB) system aimed at improving performance. In addition, socio-economic factors, challenges, and perspectives have been reported. From the analysis of different technologies, further work on effective low-cost technologies is recommended, especially using SAB system upgrading and leveraging the opportunities of this system. The study found that the performance of the AD system is affected by a variety of factors and that different approaches can be applied to improve performance. It has also been found that solar energy systems efficiently raise the biogas digester temperature and through this, they maximize the biogas yield under optimum conditions. The study revealed that the solar-assisted AD system produces less pollution and improves performance compared to the conventional AD system.

2
Composition-oriented estimation of biogas production from major culinary wastes in an anaerobic bioreactor and its associated CO reduction potential.Despite the wide applications of dry anaerobic digestion (AD), a number of fundamental issues, such as composition-oriented estimation of biogas production and CO reduction potential, were not well understood yet. The objective of this study was to establish composition-oriented models for prediction of biogas production and the associated shift of microbial communities. Three important factors regarding feedstock, including loading, carbon-to-nitrogen ratio, and solid-to-liquid ratio, were found to significantly affect the biogas production. The biogas production and digestion kinetics were evaluated with the response surface methodology. The major contribution to biogas production was found to be hydrogenotrophic methanogens (82.6 ± 0.4%). The net CO reduction potential was assessed from the life-cycle approach, and a substantial amount of CO generation (i.e., 2.8-6.7 tonne/tonne-VS) could be reduced by AD, compared to incineration, revealing that dry AD for food waste treatment should be one of the essential practices in the portfolio of global CO mitigation.

Anaerobic co-digestion of leachate and glycerol for renewable energy generation.Anaerobic digestion is a versatile biotechnology that produces bioenergy, biogas, from wastewater. Biogas production and wastewater treatment can be optimized by associating substrates with complementary characteristics. In this context, the aim of this study was to evaluate the performance of the anaerobic co-digestion of different contents of landfill leachate and crude glycerol compared to the organic matter removal and specific biogas production, the effects of the factors (time, glycerol content and substrate/inoculum ratio) and their interactions on kinetic parameters of specific biogas production using the modified Gompertz model. A Central Composite Rotational Design (CCRD) was performed for the experimental variables: time (16.6, 20, 25, 30 and 33.4 days), glycerol content (0.43, 0.70, 1.10, 1.50 and 1.77%) and substrate/inoculum ratio (0.23, 0.30, 0.40, 0.50 and 0.57 g COD/g VSS). From the optimization, it was possible to maximize the efficiency of organic matter removal (90.15%) and specific biogas production (403.15 mL/g VSS) in the conditions of 33.2 days, glycerol content of 1.71% and substrate/inoculum ratio of 0.37 g COD/g VSS. Concerning the modified Gompertz model of the optimal condition performed, an average of 20.3 times higher specific biogas production was obtained when compared to the monodigestion of leachate. Therefore, the association of leachate and glycerol was found to be feasible in terms of stability, biodegradability and biogas production.

Involvement of oral bacteria and oral immunity as risk factors for chemotherapy-induced fever with neutropenia in patients with hematological cancer.The aim of this study is to investigate the association between chemotherapy-induced fever with neutropenia less than 1500/μL (FwN) and oral bacteria and/or oral immunity in patients with hematological cancer. Thirty-two patients with hematological cancer were enrolled in the study. Secretory immunoglobulin A (sIgA) in saliva and the anaerobic bacteria in tongue coating of each subject were assessed before the first chemotherapy. Eleven subjects had an onset of FwN and 21 subjects did not during the observation periods. It was revealed by the Cox-proportional hazard model analysis that the levels of sIgA were low (HR 0.98, p < 0.05) and the rate of Fusobacterium nucleatum [F. nucleatum count per total bacterial count (%)] was high (HR 1.65, p < 0.05) in patients with FwN onset. Using ROC curve analysis, the optimal cutoff point based on the AUC in the F. nucleatum/sIgA ratio was 0.023, and this model had a 78.4% probability (p < 0.01). The risk of FwN onset was also significantly higher among the group of ≥ 0.023 F. nucleatum/sIgA ratio (HR 66.06, p < 0.01). These results suggest that the rate of F. nucleatum and the levels of sIgA at baseline might be related to FwN onset as risk factors.

Comparative analysis of prediction models for methane potential based on spent edible fungus substrate.In this study, ten spent edible fungus (SEF) with different compositional features were used for the maximum methanogenic potential (P) evaluation, and the prediction models including regression and kinetics based on this were developed separately. The results showed that the regression model with more chemical components had a good correlation with the P, and at least three chemical compositions could reach the threshold of sensitivity. The Cone model showed the best fitting effect on P in all kinetic models, which had higher R-square (>0.994) and lower error (1.004-5.672%). Meanwhile, the minimum digestive testing time (14 days) was determined by the evaluation of sensitivity via statistical indicators. It is concluded that the determination of the prediction model of P should be evaluated with the combination of statistical indicators and specific requirements.

Revealing the mechanisms for potassium ferrate affecting methane production from anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge.This study investigated the issue of potassium ferrate (PF) affecting anaerobic methane generation from sludge by a set of experimental and model analyses. Experimental results indicated that the methane production was significantly promoted from 164.7 to 204.1 mL/g VSS (volatile suspended solids) with PF dosage enhanced from 0 to 0.05 g/g TSS (total suspended solids). Further enhancement of PF dosage reduced methane production, which even decreased to 135.4 mL/g VSS when PF dosage increased to 0.1 g/g TSS. Model-based analysis showed that except for methane production potential, the methane production rate was also promoted by PF treatment, which was sufficiently enhanced from 8.80 to 11.88 mL/g VSS/d when PF dosage was 0.05 g/g TSS. Mechanism studies indicated that PF not only promoted sludge disintegration, but also enhanced the proportion of biodegradable organics in sludge liquor, and the digestion potential of the non-biodegradable humus and lignocellulose were promoted.

Physico-chemical pre-treatments of anaerobic digestion liquor for aerobic treatment.Centrifugation of anaerobically digested sewage sludge gives rise to a solid phase, which could be employed as a fertilizer, and a liquid fraction (ADL), which should be treated before being spilled out. This is not an easy task because this liquor is characterized for presenting high COD (~16000 mg O/L), high ammonium content (~4000 mg/L) and low biodegradability (BOD/COD ~0.2). With the objective to pre-treat this aqueous waste before its treatment by means of more traditional aerobic processes, different physico-chemical methods (ultrasound, ozonation, hydrolysis and wet air oxidation) were assessed in this work. Ultrasound and thermal hydrolysis gave solubilizations around 47% and 68% respectively. The best results in terms of total COD removal were obtained when wet air oxidation (8 h, 160 C-200 °C and 6.0 MPa) and ozonation (8 h, 25 °C, 12 g/h O) techniques were employed achieving COD degradations of 71% and 38%, respectively. The pre-treatment of ADL with the four assayed techniques improved considerably the biodegradability (BOD/COD) of the effluent, with values around 0.3-0.4, depending on the treatment. The experimental data were successfully fitted by kinetic models and the kinetic constants for the solubilization and degradation steps were obtained. Application of the proposed models can be of interest for the optimization and selection of the most suitable techniques and operational conditions, in each particular case.

Enhanced anaerobic digestion of primary sludge with additives: Performance and mechanisms.Anaerobic digestion of primary sludge with different additives, namely nano magnetite, graphite powder, activated carbon powder and NiCl/CoCl were evaluated by biomethane potential tests, kinetics modelling and microbial community analysis. Specific methane yields increased from 136 mL/g VS for primary sludge to 146 mL/g VS, 151 mL/g VS, and 152 mL/g VS for the addition of nano magnetite, graphite powder, and activated carbon powder at optimal dosages, respectively. The first order hydrolysis constant k increased from 0.488 d to 0.526 d, 0.622 d, and 0.724 d, respectively. Microbial community analysis revealed that the abundance of key bacterial and archaeal populations was positively correlated with hydrolysis and methane production. The enhanced methane production with activated carbon powder was due to shifting methane formation pathway from acetoclastic to hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis. In contrast, nano magnetite and graphite powder additives enhanced the direct interspecies electron transfer evidenced by increased abundance of Methanosaeta and Methanolinea.

Influence of anaerobic digestion on the labile phosphorus in pig, chicken, and dairy manure.Phosphorus (P) loss from livestock and poultry industry causes serious threat to agro-ecological environments. Anaerobic digestion (AD), through recycling of P-containing resources and biogas production, prevails as a promising solution to the resource, energy, and environment trilemma. In this study, the dynamic transformation of P in batch AD processes fed with chicken, pig and dairy manures was investigated. Results showed that the Labile-P of total phosphorus (TP) in pig, chicken and dairy manure digestates decreased from 37.35% to 23.79%, 36.79% to 17.29%, and 60.47% to 20.39%, respectively, and was associated with an increase of NaOH-P during the AD process. However, the Labile-P in raw manures ranging from 64.67% to 81.10%, indicated that AD could reduce the pollution risk caused by the overuse of high Labile-P animal manure as fertilizer. Metal ions had a significant influence on P transformation because of their ability to combine with PO/HPO. During AD, the species of phosphates increased: AlPO, FePO, Mg(PO), CaHPO, Mg(NH)PO·6HO and Ca(PO)(OH) were the main phosphates qualified by X-ray diffraction (XRD). AD produced a satisfactory fertilizer for plants that were able to activate the precipitated P, which could provide readily available N and slow-release P. This study provides a meaningful theoretical guide for recycling P from animal manure resources.

Integrating independent microbial studies to build predictive models of anaerobic digestion inhibition by ammonia and phenol.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a process that can efficiently degrade organic waste into renewable energies. AD failure is however common as the underpinning microbial mechanisms are highly vulnerable to a wide range of inhibitory compounds. Sequencing technologies enable the identification of microbial indicators of digesters inhibition, but existing studies are limited. They used different inocula, substrates, sites and types of reactors and reported different or contradictory indicators. Our aim was to identify a robust signature of microbial indicators of phenol and ammonia inhibitions across four independent AD microbial studies. To identify such signature, we applied an original multivariate integrative method on two in-house studies, then validated our approach by predicting the inhibitory status of samples from two other studies with more than 90% accuracy. Our approach shows how we can efficiently leverage on existing studies to extract reproducible microbial community patterns and predict AD inhibition to improve AD microbial management.

2
Pretreatment using UV combined with CaO for the anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge: Mechanistic modeling for attenuation of trace organic contaminants.Trace organic contaminants (TOrCs) in waste active sludge (WAS) have caused many concerns due to their recalcitrance and detriment to the performance of anaerobic digestion (AD). In this study, UV (2 h) combined with calcium peroxide (CaO, 0.1 g g-VSS (VSS, volatile suspended solid) was proposed as a suitable sludge pretreatment to enhance the AD performance with an increase in the production of maximum total short-chain fatty acids (421.3 %) and methane (119.2 %). Meanwhile, above 50 % removal efficiency for 19 detected TOrCs was achieved. UV and CaO had a synergistic effect on the subsequent AD of WAS. Both UV and Ca(OH) produced by CaO played important roles in the dissolution of WAS and the subsequent AD, while UV-direct and OH-indirect photolysis accounted for TOrCs attenuation. In order to predict TOrCs attenuation by UV/CaO treatment, a TOrCs photolysis model was tentatively established using carbamazepine as an indicator. This predictive model expressed a good prediction with adj-R = 0.94, and the difference of predicted and measured values was within 27.3 %. This work evaluates a sludge pretreatment for simultaneously TOrCs attenuation and methane accumulation, laying foundation for promotion of sludge resource recycling.

Modeling the anaerobic treatment of sulfate-rich urban wastewater: Application to AnMBR technology.Although anaerobic membrane bioreactors (AnMBR) are a core technology in the transition of urban wastewater (UWW) treatment towards a circular economy, the transition is being held back by a number of bottlenecks. The dissolved methane released from the effluent, the need to remove nutrients (ideally by recovery), or the energy lost by the competition between methanogenic and sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB) for the biodegradable COD have been identified as the main issues to be addressed before AnMBR becomes widespread. Mathematical modeling of this technology can be used to obtain further insights into these bottlenecks plus other valuable information for design, simulation and control purposes. This paper therefore proposes an AnMBR anaerobic digestion model to simulate the crucial SRB-related process since these bacteria degrade more than 40% of the organic matter. The proposed model, which is included in the BNRM2 collection model, has a reduced but all-inclusive structure, including hydrolysis, acidogenesis, acetogenesis, methanogenesis and other SRB-related processes. It was calibrated and validated using data from an AnMBR pilot plant treating sulfate-rich UWW, including parameter values obtained in off-line experiments and optimization methods. Despite the complex operating dynamics and influent composition, it was able to reproduce the process performance. In fact, it was able to simulate the AD of sulfate-rich UWW considering only two groups of SRB: heterotrophic SRB growing on both VFA (propionate) and acetate, and autotrophic SRB growing on hydrogen. Besides the above-mentioned constraints, the model reproduced the dynamics of the mixed liquor solids concentration, which helped to integrate biochemical and filtration models. It also reproduced the alkalinity and pH dynamics in the mixed liquor required for assessing the effect of chemical precipitation on membrane scaling.

Hydrogenotrophic activity: A tool to evaluate the kinetics of methanogens.Anaerobic-digestion-based technology is key to achieving sustainable water management and resource recovery. It is essential to understand the material flux and kinetics involved in methanogenesis to optimize the organic matter removal and methane production. In this sense, specific methanogenic activity is a cost-effective tool to characterize the biological activity of anaerobic biosludge, to monitor the performance of reactors, and study the kinetics of acetate and H conversion to methane. Established protocols are applied for the acetoclastic activity test. However, hydrogenotrophic activity assay remains less widespread and is not standardized. In this work, the assay design for hydrogenotrophic activity is discussed and full calculation is presented, based on the kinetics for the H/CO conversion to methane. An equation to calculate the inoculum size is proposed, suitable for a wide variety of types of biosludge: from a wastewater treatment plant to solid digesters, from a high-rate reactor to lagoons. The applied zero-order model fitted adequately to data for pilot-scale and full-scale anaerobic reactors: the p-values from the ANOVA F-test were below 1E-03; standard deviations for triplicate experiments were between 3 and 12%, coherent with the values found in the literature. Microbial growth during the test was negligible, below 1.2% of the biomass dosed in the vial. As a complement, acetoclastic activity was determined for each sample. The use of both acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic activity is relevant for the study of the methanogenesis and gives a better characterization of the performance of the biosludge in anaerobic reactors rather than only using the specific acetoclastic methanogenic activity.

Identification of the HT-29 cell line as a model for investigating MCT1 transporters in sigmoid colon adenocarcinoma.MCT1 transporters play a crucial role in the symbiotic relationship between humans and their colonic microbiome by facilitating the transport of bacteria-derived short chain fatty acids. Expression of colonic MCT1 transporters, localized in surface epithelial cells, is regulated by luminal butyrate levels. However, MCT1 also transports lactate and can be used by cancer cells to facilitate anaerobic glycolysis. Using immunolocalization techniques, this study investigated whether changes in MCT1 during cancer varied between different colonic regions. Whilst MCT1 abundance did not significantly change in transverse colon adenocarcinoma (P = 0.363, N = 6, paired T-Test), there was an increase in MCT1 in sigmoid colon adenocarcinoma (P = 0.010, N = 21, paired T-test). Using RT-PCR and western blotting, three human intestinal cell lines were tested for their suitability as a MCT1 cancer cell model. Experiments with Caco-2 cells confirmed that they modelled normal cells, with MCT1 only expressed after exposure to butyrate. In contrast, MCT1 was expressed in the absence of butyrate in both HCT-8 and HT-29 cell lines, with consistently high levels of MCT1 protein being present in HT-29 cells. Furthermore, butyrate treatment of HT-29 cells significantly decreased both MCT1 protein abundance (P < 0.001, N = 4, unpaired T-test) and glycosylation of its' chaperone protein, CD147 (P < 0.001, N = 4, unpaired T-test). These data suggest that (i) MCT1 transporter abundance increases in sigmoid colon adenocarcinoma, and (ii) HT-29 cells are an appropriate cell model with which to investigate MCT1 function in this disease.

Comparative assessment of modeling and experimental data of ammonia removal from pre-digested chicken manure.The aim of this study was to interpret the development of Anammox activity by a mathematical model in an UASB reactor -originally inoculated with methanogenic granules- at which Anammox progress has been also experimentally observed while treating chicken manure digestate. Since ammonium is derived from anaerobic degradation of nitrogenous compounds in chicken manure similar to any other nitrogen-rich organic wastes; the reactor was operated intentionally at favorable conditions [i.e.; with external nitrite source for NH :NO ≅1.0] in order to make Anammox process to prevail as operation continued. Results indicated significant ammonia removals (60% on average) although influent concentration was gradually increased up to 200 mg L-. A modeling exercise has been undertaken to investigate the performance of the laboratory scale UASB reactor. In this scope, the experimental results were modeled by using Mantis2 model within GPS-X 6.5 simulation software that included several built in libraries. Accordingly, effluent chemical oxygen demand (COD) and total ammonia nitrogen (TAN) concentrations could be predicted with reasonably good accuracy demonstrating successful calibration. The regression coefficient ( ) and mean relative absolute error (MRAE) parameters were found as 0.66 and 16% and 0.70 and 19%, respectively.

Biogas production management systems with model predictive control of anaerobic digestion processes.We developed a biogas production management system to control biogas production by determining the feedstock inputs to the anaerobic digestion process according to fluctuations of the renewable energy supply. The developed system consists of three functions: a prediction model for the anaerobic digestion processes, a parameter-estimation system, and a feedstock-determination controller. A prediction model for the anaerobic digestion processes in a state-space representation was constructed for the input-output relationship of biogas generation from organic compounds and the state of methane fermentation. A parameter-estimation system that estimated the parameters included in the prediction model from actual operating process data was built based on adaptive identification theory. The feedstock-determination controller was established based on model predictive control as a method to control biogas production. From the results of the identification experiment, the least square estimator of the parameters converged as the training data increased, and a reliable parameter was given in 1 week. From the results of the numerical simulation and the control experiment, it was confirmed that the biogas production management system developed in this study had a high prediction accuracy and control performance.

Kinetic study of oxytetracycline and chlortetracycline inhibition in the anaerobic digestion of dairy manure.This study was aimed to investigate the mechanisms of oxytetracycline (OTC) and chlortetracycline (CTC) inhibition in anaerobic digestion (AD) using four kinetic models. The results showed that the inhibition rate of OTC was faster than CTC at OTC and CTC between 0.04 and 1.28 g/L. Hydrolysis rate constant was linearly and positively correlated with OTC and increased from 0.172 to 0.193 d, 0.164 to 0.179 d and 0.251 to 0.285 d using first-order kinetic, Fitzhugh and Cone models, respectively, while the maximum specific methane production rate was linearly and negatively correlated with CTC and decreased from 0.028 to 0.016 L/gVS. Cone model was found to give the most satisfactory fitting results followed in descending order by first-order kinetic, Fitzhugh and modified Gompertz models. The kinetic modeling of methane yield helped explain the mechanism of OTC and CTC inhibition in the AD process and provided essential information for further process improvement.

Phoenix dactylifera
Anaerobic digestion of waste Tunisian date ( L.): effect of biochemical composition of pulp and seeds from six varieties.Large amounts of secondary date waste (pulp and seeds) are produced and discarded in Tunisia without proper valorisation methods. To study the possibility of valorising different varieties of Tunisian date waste (pulp and seeds) via anaerobic digestion, batch biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests were carried out under mesophilic temperature. The bio-methane production curves were fitted to the model of modified Gompertz in search of the kinetic parameters. The bio-chemical characterisation of the substrates from different varieties (total and volatile solids, COD and contents in carbohydrates, proteins, lipids, polyphenols) was realised. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to investigate the correlations between the model parameters and biochemical variables. Results show that the biochemical compositions of date pulp and seeds strongly depend on the varieties. The BMP are in the range of 0.295-0.345 and 0.267-0.327 Nm CH·kg COD for pulp and seeds respectively, resulting from the significant biochemical variance among the varieties. The BMP of date seeds was significantly correlated with their VS/TS ratio, carbohydrate and protein contents ( < 0.05). For the pulp, significant correlation was found between BMP, carbohydrate and lipid contents. PCA shows that certain varieties (like pulp and seeds of Deglet Nour and seeds of Bejou) are most suitable for being valorised by anaerobic digestion. The most suitable date varieties for this innovative approach were revealed. This research provided useful knowledge for bioconversion of waste date pulp and seeds to biomass energy.

A review on facilitating bio-wastes degradation and energy recovery efficiencies in anaerobic digestion systems with biochar amendment.In this review, progress in the potential mechanisms of biochar amendment for AD performance promotion was summarized. As adsorbents, biochar was beneficial for alleviating microbial toxicity, accelerating refractory substances degradation, and upgrading biogas quality. The buffering capacity of biochar balanced pH decreasing caused by volatile fatty acids accumulation. Moreover, biochar regulated microbial metabolism by boosting activities, mediating electron transfer between syntrophic partners, and enriching functional microbes. Recent studies also suggested biochar as potential useful additives for membrane fouling alleviation in anaerobic membrane bioreactors (AnMBR). By analyzing the reported performances based on different operation models or substrate types, debatable issues and associated research gaps of understanding the real role of biochar in AD were critically discussed. Accordingly, Future perspectives of developing biochar-amended AD technology for real-world applications were elucidated. Lastly, with biochar-amended AD as a core process, a novel integrated scheme was proposed towards high-efficient energy-resource recovery from various bio-wastes.

Impact of total solids content on anaerobic co-digestion of pig manure and food waste: Insights into shifting of the methanogenic pathway.Dry anaerobic digestion (AD) has advantages over wet AD in treating high-solid organic wastes like livestock and food wastes, but an elevated total solids (TS) content would affect the AD performances. In this study, methane production of digesters co-digesting pig manure (PM) and food waste (FW) at different TS contents (R, TS 5%; R, TS 10%; R, TS 15%; and R, TS 20%) was assessed. The results showed the specific methane yield had no significant difference with the increase of TS contents from 5% to 15% (278.8-291.7 NmL/g VS), while it was reduced at a 20% TS content (259.8 NmL/g VS). Two peaks of total volatile fatty acids and daily methane production were observed in the high-solid digesters (R-R), while only one peak occurred in wet AD (R). A new kinetics model was developed to describe the two-peak methane production behavior at high TS contents. The analysis on the microbial community structure clearly showed the different evolutions of methanogenic pathways in low and high solids content systems. In dry AD (R), there was a general shifting from the acetoclastic pathway, to mixotrophic pathway and hydrogenotrophic pathway, with the dominance of mixotrophic and hydrogenotrophic methanogens.

Data-driven fault detection methods for detecting small-magnitude faults in anaerobic digestion process.Early detection of small-magnitude faults in anaerobic digestion (AD) processes is a mandatory step for preventing serious consequence in the future. Since volatile fatty acids (VFA) accumulation is widely suggested as a process health indicator, a VFA soft-sensor was developed based on support vector machine (SVM) and used for generating the residuals by comparing real and predicted VFA. The estimated residual signal was applied to univariate statistical control charts such as cumulative sum (CUSUM) and square prediction error (SPE) to detect the faults. A principal component analysis (PCA) model was also developed for comparison with the aforementioned approach. The proposed framework showed excellent performance for detecting small-magnitude faults in the state parameters of AD processes.

Partial integration of ADM1 into CFD: understanding the impact of diffusion on anaerobic digestion mixing.Sufficient mixing is crucial for the proper performance of anaerobic digestion (AD), creating a homogeneous distribution of soluble substrates, biomass, pH, and temperature. The opaqueness of the sludge and mode of operation make it challenging to study AD mixing experimentally. Therefore, hydrodynamics modelling employing computational fluid dynamics (CFD) is often used to investigate this mixing. However, CFD models mostly do not include biochemical reactions and, hence, ignore the effect of diffusion-induced transport on AD heterogeneity. The novelty of this work is the partial integration of Anaerobic Digestion Model no. 1 (ADM1) into the CFD model. The aim is to better understand the effect of advection-diffusion transport on the homogenization of soluble substrates and biomass. Furthermore, AD homogeneity analysis in terms of concentration distribution is proposed rather than the traditional velocity distributions. The computed results indicate that including diffusion-induced transport affects the homogeneity of AD.

A CFD strategy to retrofit an anaerobic digester to improve mixing performance in wastewater treatment.To date, mixing design practice in anaerobic digestion has focussed on biogas production, but no adequate consideration has been given to energy efficiency. A coherent, comprehensive and generalized strategy based on computational fluid dynamics (CFD) modelling is proposed to improve mixing efficiency of a full-scale, unconfined gas-mixed digester for wastewater treatment. The model consists of an Euler-Lagrange (EL) model where biogas bubbles are modelled as the Eulerian dispersed phase, and non-Newtonian sludge as the Lagrangian continuous phase. Robustness tests show that mixing predictions are independent of bubble size. The CFD strategy comprises the assessment of different mixing geometries and a range of input gas flow rates. Quantitative results show that simple retrofitting measures are able to achieve a significant improvement in the degree of mixing with reduced mixing times, and consequently recommendations for best mixing geometry and gas flow rate are given. A generalization to a generic digester is discussed in a form that is readily usable by professionals and consultants.

Treatment of Cattle Manure by Anaerobic Co-Digestion with Food Waste and Pig Manure: Methane Yield and Synergistic Effect.The management of cattle manure (CM) has become increasingly challenging because its production continues to rise, while the regulations on manure management have become increasingly stringent. In Korea, most farms produce CM as a dry mixture with lignocellulosic bedding materials (mainly sawdust), making it impractical to treat CM by anaerobic digestion. To address this problem, this study examined whether anaerobic co-digestion with food waste (FW) and pig manure (PM) could be an effective approach for the treatment of CM. The batch anaerobic digestion tests at different CM: FW: PM mixing ratios showed that more methane was produced as the FW fraction increased, and as the CM fraction decreased. The response surface models describing how the substrate mixing ratio affects the methane yield and synergistic effect (methane yield basis) were successfully generated. The models proved that the methane yield and synergistic effect respond differently to changes in the substrate mixing ratio. The maximum 30-day methane yield was predicted at 100% FW, whereas the maximum 30-day synergy index was estimated for the mixture of 47% CM, 6% FW, and 47% PM (total solids basis). The synergy index model showed that CM, FW, and PM could be co-digested without a substantial loss of their methane potential at any mixing ratio (30-day synergy index, 0.89-1.22), and that a possible antagonistic effect could be avoided by keeping the FW proportion less than 50%. The results suggest that co-digestion with PM and FW could be flexibly applied for the treatment and valorization of CM in existing anaerobic digestion plants treating FW and PM.

Fractionated volatile solids for understanding thermophilic pretreatment of waste activated sludge at 55, 65, and 75°C.Autohydrolysis or enzyme hydrolysis pretreatment under thermophilic conditions significantly accelerates organic solubilization of waste activated sludge (WAS), allowing enhanced methanogenesis in subsequent mesophilic anaerobic digestion. Solubilization mechanisms can hardly be explained and clarified using only conventional analytical measurements, such as soluble chemical oxygen demand (COD) and volatile suspended solids (VSS). Here, we proposed a new but readily available analytical method where volatile solids (VS) are fractionized into high volatile solids (VS ), moderate volatile solids (VS ), and low volatile solids (VS ). In a laboratory-scale experiment, anaerobic digesters were operated at 55, 65, and 75°C with thickened WAS. The high volatile solids (VS ) sensitively reflected the temperature effect while the low volatility solids (VS ) showed relatively insensitive results to the examined temperature conditions. This finding indicates that hydrolysis of high volatile solids (VS ) was accelerated more effectively with the increased temperature. Also, based on the experimental results with the fractionized volatile solids, we recommend that autohydrolysis pretreatment should be operated at 75°C for 5 hr to achieve both rapid hydrolysis and reduced energy consumption. PRACTITIONER POINTS: The volatile solids (VS) were divided into high volatile, moderate volatile, and low volatile fractions. The fractionated VS showed how organic solids were hydrolyzed in thermophilic pretreatment of thickened waste activated sludge. At the higher temperature (75°C), the high volatile fraction increased substantially compared to 55 or 65°C. The fractionated VS responded more sensitively to the thermophilic temperatures compared to common analysis parameters (COD, VSS). We recommend thermophilic pretreatment at 75°C for 5 hr for thickened waste activated sludge.

Anaerobic Sequencing Batch Reactors Co-digesting Whey and Glycerin as a Possible Solution for Small and Mid-size Dairy Industries: Environmental Compliance and Methane Production.A significant part of whey generated in Brazil is from small and mid-size dairy companies. Cheese whey has great potential for methane production through anaerobic biological processes but presents instabilities due to its high biodegradability. To study an alternative for the destination of this residue, the aim of this work was to investigate methane from the co-digestion of whey with glycerin and its environmental compliance at 55 °C in an anaerobic sequencing batch biofilm reactor. The best performance indicators were obtained with an influent composed of 88% cheese whey and 12% glycerin (by volume), fed-batch mode and organic loading rate of 19.3 kgCOD m day at 55 °C. This operational condition allowed us to achieve a methane productivity of 203 molCH m day, a methane yield close to theoretical value, and to remove 68% of all organic matter in the influent. A kinetic metabolic model was fitted to the experimental data, which indicated methanogenesis with preference for the acetoclastic route. Finally, the energy production (approximately 197 MWh month) from an industrial scale reactor and its volume (three reactors of 152 m) were assessed for a mid-size dairy industry, which could save up to US$ 22,000.00 per month in oil demand.

Analysis of anaerobic digester mixing: comparison of long shafted paddle mixing vs gas mixing.The anaerobic digestion (AD) process is influenced by a variety of operation parameters, such as sludge rheology, mixing, temperature, solid retention time (SRT), hydraulic retention time (HRT) and solids concentration. The optimum in the mixing lies somewhere between no-mixing and continuous mixing, as the lack or excessive mixing can lead to poor AD performance instead. A three-dimensional computational fluid dynamics steady/unsteady model, incorporating the rheological properties of the sludge, was developed and applied to quantify mixing in a full-scale anaerobic digester. Mechanical and gas mixing solutions were taken into account, keeping constant the daily energy consumption. Results, consisting of velocity magnitude and patterns, dead zone formation and turbulence levels were discussed. Compared to the mechanical mixing, gas mixing had lower percentage of dead zones (about 5% against 50%), larger maximum velocity (about 3 m/s against 1 m/s) as well as larger turbulent kinetic energy levels (0.24 m/s against 0.001 m/s).

Short-term flexibility for energy grids provided by wastewater treatment plants with anaerobic sludge digestion.For a sustainable development of the energy sector - in the future - an additional potential of energetic flexibility as well as storage capacities will be required to compensate for fluctuating renewable energy production. The operation of energy systems will change and flexibility in energy generation and consumption will rise to become a valuable asset. Wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) with anaerobic sludge digestion are capable of providing that needed flexibility, not only with their energy generators but also in terms of their energy consuming aggregates on the plant. Under these circumstances a methodical approach has been developed that can be used to select, evaluate and safely implement typical aggregates on WWTPs for flexible plant operation and the provision of energetic flexibility. Relevant key figures have been developed that reconcile requirements of the purification processes with technical-physical necessities as well as the demands of the energy market. Furthermore, restrictions and control parameters have been established which complement the developed key figures to ensure effluent quality. It was demonstrated that WWTPs are able to adapt their operation mode to external and internal requirements under controlled conditions. The existing flexibility is suitable for a variety of uses, and WWTPs in general are able to participate in today's and in future energy supply products and new business models. The results show that WWTPs have a significant potential to produce renewable energy and to provide energetic flexibility, which is needed to stabilize future renewable-energy-driven energy grids.

Impact of pyrochar and hydrochar derived from digestate on the co-digestion of sewage sludge and swine manure.Four kinds of biochar were obtained by pyrolysis carbonization and hydrothermal carbonization from swine manure digestate, i.e. pyrochar (HC, HC-Fe) and hydrochar (HTC, HTC-Fe). Batch fermentation was conducted to compare their effects on the co-digestion of sewage sludge and swine manure. Both pyrochar and hydrochar present positive effect on methane production, nevertheless the higher methane yields were obtained in HTC and HTC-Fe digesters. No advantage was observed for the iron impregnation. The maximum methane yield was 308.4 mL/g VS in HTC digester, which was 27% and 49% higher than HC and Control, respectively. The surface functional groups of hydrochar are more abundant than pyrochar, which is favorable for promoting the syntrophic anaerobic metabolism, as revealed by the promoted substrate hydrolysis and VFAs consumption rate. Thus, it is proposed to convert swine manure digestate to hydrochar, which can be recirculated back to the AD reactor to increase the digestion efficiency.

Insight into using up-flow anaerobic sludge blanket-anammox to remove nitrogen from an anaerobic membrane reactor during mainstream wastewater treatment.A partial nitritation/anammox system treating the effluent of an anaerobic membrane bioreactor was investigated in this study with emphases on the nitrogen conversion and microbial dynamics along the up-flow anaerobic sludge blanket. An average total nitrogen concentration of 12.3 mg/L was achieved in effluent, which resulted in a total nitrogen removal efficiency of 75.9% ± 0.6%, in which the contribution of anammox was over 98%, and mainly occurred at the bottom of the up-flow anaerobic sludge blanket. Furthermore, external nitrite produced from nitrate reduction enhanced the nitrogen removal efficiency. Ca. Brocadia was the dominant anammox bacteria and was enriched at the bottom; Dokdonella and Thermomonas were identified as the denitrifiers for nitrite production and existed in the whole reactor. Findings of this study can be used in a practical model for the future development of integrating anaerobic digestion with partial nitritation/anammox in mainstream wastewater treatment.

An optimum strategy for substrate mixture and pretreatment in biogas plants: Potential application for high-pH waste management.Optimization of anaerobic digestion poses many practical constraints. Therefore, a new approach was developed by integrating mathematical modeling and desirability analysis to determine optimum amounts of input factors. For this purpose, different proportions of co-digestion (grapefruit waste:cow manure) and pretreatments (NaOH and HO) were tested on the basis of a combined D-optimal experimental design. Different models were developed for certain slurry properties and CH production (responses) depending on the input factors. To improve the models, Box-Cox transformation was used to transform the models into more accurate formats. The improved models were then used in desirability analysis, and optimum ranges were determined instead of optimum absolute values in three cases of given constraints, (i) constraints of the slurry properties, (ii) increase in CH production, and (iii) constraints on all the responses (more important for plant efficiency). The optimum ranges were extracted for the desirability levels with values greater than 0.9 × (maximum desirability value). For the constraints given in all the responses, the optimum range of grapefruit waste:cow manure proportion was 2.5%:97.5% to 25%:75%, the optimum range of NaOH pretreatment was 0.3-2.64%, and the optimum range of HO was range experimented except for 1.32-1.68%. Similar trends were determined for the other cases of constraints. To clarify the method of desirability analysis, the overlaying method was used to determine regions of interest according to some predefined constraints. Simultaneous consideration of range optimization and region of interest showed that (i) an amount greater than 25% grapefruit waste in the digestion decreased the CH production significantly, and (ii) plant efficiency was improved with all amounts of HO except 1.32-1.68%, and with amounts of 0.3-1.2% and 1.8-2.64% of NaOH. As shown the optimum ranges are more common for practical use in plants.

Potassium inhibition during sludge and biopulp co-digestion; experimental and model-based approaches.Process instability with consecutive low methane production are common challenges of the anaerobic digestion (AD) of municipal wastes. In the present study, the co-digestion of sewage sludge and municipal biopulp was investigated at batch and continuously fed digesters. At batch tests, the highest methane yield for co-digestion (467 ± 17 mLCH/gVS) was achieved when biopulp contributed to 80% of organic matter content and sludge the remaining 20%. At continuous mode operation, co-digestion achieved 0.91 ± 0.11 L/(L·d) methane productivity, while mono-digestion of sludge achieved 0.62 ± 0.05 L/(L·d). Potassium inhibition was investigated at the most efficient co-digestion scenario and was found that the half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC) occurred at 8 g-K/L. Subsequently, the effect of K was investigated at different scenarios at continuous operation. Simulations based on BioModel described the inhibitory effect of K by introducing non-competitive inhibition of methanogens. Simulation results confirmed the strongly inhibitory effect of potassium to the AD process.

14
Excretion, Mass Balance, and Metabolism of [C]LY3202626 in Humans: An Interplay of Microbial Reduction, Reabsorption, and Aldehyde Oxidase Oxidation That Leads to an Extended Excretion Profile.The mass balance, excretion, and metabolism of LY3202626 were determined in healthy subjects after oral administration of a single dose of 10 mg of (approximately 100 μCi) [C]LY3202626. Excretion of radioactivity was slow and incomplete, with approximately 75% of the dose recovered after 504 hours of sample collection. The mean total recovery of the radioactive dose was 31% and 44% in the feces and urine, respectively. Because of low plasma total radioactivity, plasma metabolite profiling was conducted by accelerator mass spectrometry. Metabolism of LY3202626 occurred primarily via -demethylation (M2) and amide hydrolysis (M1, M3, M4, and M5). Overall, parent drug, M1, M2, and M4 were the largest circulating components in plasma, and M2 and M4 were the predominant excretory metabolites. The slow elimination of total radioactivity was proposed to result from an unusual enterohepatic recirculation pathway involving microbial reduction of metabolite M2 to M16 in the gut and reabsorption of M16, followed by hepatic oxidation of M16 back to M2. Supporting in vitro experiments showed that M2 is reduced to M16 anaerobically in fecal homogenate and that M16 is oxidized in the liver by aldehyde oxidase to M2. LY3202626 also showed a potential to form a reactive sulfenic acid intermediate. A portion of plasma radioactivity was unextractable and presumably bound covalently to plasma proteins. In vitro incubation of LY3202626 in human liver microsomes in the presence of NADPH with dimedone as a trapping agent implicated the formation of the proposed sulfenic acid intermediate. SIGNIFICANCE STATEMENT: The excretion of radioactivity in humans after oral administration of a single dose of 10 mg of [C]LY3202626 was very slow. The results from in vitro experiments suggested that an interplay between microbial reduction, reabsorption, and aldehyde oxidase oxidation (M2 → M16 → M2) could be a reason for extended radioactivity excretion profile. In vitro metabolism also showed that LY3202626 has the potential to form a reactive sulfenic acid intermediate that could potentially covalently bind to plasma protein and result in the observed unextractable radioactivity from plasma.

Impact of hydrothermal pretreatment on anaerobic digestion efficiency for lignocellulosic biomass: Influence of pretreatment temperature on the formation of biomass-degrading byproducts.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of lignocellulosic biomass is appealing because of the abundance and ease of obtaining the biomass locally. However, the recalcitrance of lignocellulosic biomass presents an obstacle in the hydrolysis step of AD and lowers the process efficiency. In this study, sunflower, which is a model lignocellulosic biomass, was pretreated by thermal (hydrothermal pretreatment, HTP) and non-thermal (milling) methods; the methane yield and biodegradability of the pretreated biomass were determined using a series of batch tests. The thermal pretreatment method showed a significantly higher methane yield (213.87-289.47 mL g VS) and biodegradability (43-63%) than those of the non-thermally pretreated biomass, and the optimum pretreatment effect was observed at an HTP temperature of 180 °C. However, at an HTP temperature exceeding 200 °C, the induced formation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural and furfural significantly lowered the methane yield and biodegradability. This study revealed that the HTP temperature is closely related to the formation of lignocellulosic biomass-degrading byproducts, which potentially hinder the methanogenesis step in AD; severe HTP conditions may have the opposite effect on the AD performance of lignocellulosic biomass.

Process type is the key driver of the fate of organic micropollutants during industrial scale treatment of organic wastes.Organic micropollutants (OMPs) such as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, nonylphenols and pharmaceutical products are ubiquitous in organic wastes generated by most human activities. Those wastes are mainly recycled by land spreading, most often after treatments, such as liming, dewatering, composting or anaerobic digestion. It has been shown essentially at lab scales that biological treatments have an effect on the removal of some OMPs. However, less is known on the role of each step of industrial treatment lines combining physico-chemical and biological treatments on the OMP fate and removal. The present study focuses on the impact of waste treatment on the fate of 53 OMPs along 10 industrial treatment lines treating urban, agricultural wastes or mixtures. The combination of studying a diversity of organic wastes and of OMPs with different characteristics (solubility, ionic charges, hydrophobicity etc.), sampling in situ industrial sites, quantifying native OMP concentrations and looking at each step of complete treatment lines allows for a global and representative view of the OMP fate in the French organic waste treatment sector. Less studied wastes, i.e. territorial mixtures, revealed intermediate OMP contents and compositions, between urban and agricultural wastes. Dewatering and liming, usually dismissed, had a noticeable effect on concentrations. Anaerobic digestion and composting had significant effects on the removal of all pollutant families. Combination of processes enhanced most OMP dissipation. Here we showed for the first time that the process type rather than the waste origin affects dissipation of organic micropollutants. Such data could be used to build and validate dynamic models for the fate of OMPs on solid waste treatment plants.

Impacts of Cu and Zn on the performance, microbial community dynamics and resistance genes variations during mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic digestion of swine manure.In this work, fate of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs), heavy metal resistance genes (MRGs) and intI1 were investigated during mesophilic (mAD) and thermophilic anaerobic digestion (tAD) of swine manure with presence of Cu and Zn. Results showed that metal reduced the lag phase time. Cu showed stronger inhibition than Zn on archaea community and metals inhibited the growth of acetoclastic methanogens during mAD. Although total concentration of metals increased after AD, they were transformed into stable state. The abundance of qnrS, sul1, sul2 and drfA7 increased 1.2-5.7 times after mAD, while reduced after tAD, showed that tAD was effective in ARGs removal. Structural equation model analysis suggested that intI1 had the most standardized direct effects on ARGs variation in mAD (R = 0.85, p < 0.01), while the co-occurrence of MRGs with ARGs showed significantly positive influences on ARGs variation in tAD (R = 0.82, p < 0.01).

Impact of AnMBR operating conditions on anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge.The impact of solids retention time (SRT) and hydraulic retention time (HRT) on anaerobic digestion of thickened waste activated sludge (TWAS) in a pilot-scale anaerobic membrane bioreactor (AnMBR) was compared with that achieved in conventional anaerobic digestions (CD). The AnMBR was able to successfully digest municipal TWAS at HRTs ranging from 7 to 15 days and SRTs ranging from 15 to 30 days. Increasing SRT in the AnMBR resulted in a significant improvement in COD and VS removal efficiency when compared against CD operating at the same HRT. The VS and COD destructions (35%-50%) observed in the AnMBR were similar to those observed in CD operating at the same SRT but longer HRTs. Operation at elevated ratios of SRT/HRT resulted in the production of a thickened biosolid (2%-3% TS). Specific methane production values for AnMBR operating at HRT-SRT ratios of 15-30, 7-30, and 7-15 were 0.19, 0.19, and 0.14 m  CH /kg of COD fed, respectively, showing a 25% increase in methane production with SRT. A model based upon describing hydrolysis of biodegradable solids using first-order kinetics was able to describe VS destruction as a function of SRT. PRACTITIONER POINTS: The AnMBR process was able to successfully digest waste activated sludge at a shorter seven-day HRTs Operation at elevated ratios of SRT/HRT resulted in enhanced biogas and thickened biosolid (2%-3% TS) production requiring reduced downstream processing The AnMBR process produces a particle-free permeate that might be suitable for side stream nutrient recovery A model developed by considering hydrolysis as a limiting process can be used to determine design SRTs.

Microbial community in an anaerobic membrane bioreactor and its performance in treating organic solid waste under controlled and deteriorated conditions.The adoption of anaerobic membrane bioreactors (AnMBRs) for organic solid waste management is important for the recovery of energy and high-quality treated water. However, few studies have focused on AnMBR treatment of high-strength organic solid waste and the microorganisms involved under deteriorated operating conditions. In the present study, a 15-L bench-scale AnMBR was operated using a model slurry of high-strength organic solid waste with the organic loading rate (OLR) increasing from 2.3 g chemical oxygen demand (COD) L day (represented as a controlled condition) to 11.6 g COD L day (represented as a deteriorated condition), and microbial community dynamics over 120 days of operation were analyzed. The abundances of methanogens and bacteria that were dominant under the controlled condition decreased as a result of both high organic loading and sludge withdrawal under the deteriorated condition and did not recover thereafter. Instead, numbers of putative volatile fatty acid (VFA)-producing bacterial operational taxonomic units (OTUs) related to the genus Prevotella increased rapidly, reaching a relative abundance of 43.2%, leading to the deterioration of methanogenic AnMBR operation. Considering that the sequences of these OTUs exhibited relatively low sequence identity (91-95%) to those of identified Prevotella species, the results strongly suggest that the accumulation of VFAs by novel VFA-producing bacteria in the digestion sludge promotes the disruption of the methanogen community under deteriorated conditions.

Anaerobic co-digestion of sewage sludge with cellulose, protein, and lipids: Role of rheology and digestibility.Rheology is known to have an impact on the performance of digesters, but the effect of additional substrates (co-digestion) is poorly understood. The main objective of this study was to investigate the effects of the addition of cellulose, protein and lipids to substrates on the rheological behaviour and biogas production of the mixture of primary sludge (PS) and waste-activated sludge (WAS) in a batch system. A mixture of PS and WAS to form the main substrate was anaerobically co-digested with different types of organic matter (cellulose, protein and lipids) as co-substrates at different co-substrate to main substrate ratios of 2-8 (wt%) under mesophilic conditions and below ammonia inhibition levels. Yield stress (τ) and the flow consistency index (k) of the combined feed in the case of cellulose and protein were significantly dependent on the amount of co-substrate added, while there was an insignificant impact on these properties when lipids were added. Cellulose significantly increased τ and k in the feed, which resulted in poor fluidity and the improper homogenisation of the digester content, and consequently decreased the biogas yield. In contrast, the biogas yield was improved through the addition of 2% to 6% protein despite an increase in τ and k of the feed, but the methane yield decreased at 7% and 8% levels of protein concentration. This observation indicates that the threshold for τ and k of the digester media depends on the organic nature and digestibility of the substrate. There was no significant impact on the flow properties of the initial mixture when lipids were added, and their addition increased the biogas yield. A first-order kinetic reaction model was used for predicting the yield of methane from these digesters. The rate constant values revealed an increasing trend, with the highest for protein then lipids then cellulose.

2
Import of Aspartate and Malate by DcuABC Drives H/Fumarate Respiration to Promote Initial Salmonella Gut-Lumen Colonization in Mice.Initial enteropathogen growth in the microbiota-colonized gut is poorly understood. Salmonella Typhimurium is metabolically adaptable and can harvest energy by anaerobic respiration using microbiota-derived hydrogen (H) as an electron donor and fumarate as an electron acceptor. As fumarate is scarce in the gut, the source of this electron acceptor is unclear. Here, transposon sequencing analysis along the colonization trajectory of S. Typhimurium implicates the C4-dicarboxylate antiporter DcuABC in early murine gut colonization. In competitive colonization assays, DcuABC and enzymes that convert the C4-dicarboxylates aspartate and malate into fumarate (AspA, FumABC), are required for fumarate/H-dependent initial growth. Thus, S. Typhimurium obtains fumarate by DcuABC-mediated import and conversion of L-malate and L-aspartate. Fumarate reduction yields succinate, which is exported by DcuABC in exchange for L-aspartate and L-malate. This cycle allows S. Typhimurium to harvest energy by H/fumarate respiration in the microbiota-colonized gut. This strategy may also be relevant for commensal E. coli diminishing the S. Typhimurium infection.

Enhancing the production of biogas through anaerobic co-digestion of agricultural waste and chemical pre-treatments.Large amounts of agricultural solid wastes (ASWs) and animal dung are produced annually causing serious environmental problem that requires proper treatment. The present study proposes a strategy for optimizing the anaerobic co-digestion of ASWs and cow dung (CD), identifies the key factors governing the co-digestion performance and evaluates the effect of NaHCO alkalinity treatment on improving the economy and performance of anaerobic digestion (AD). The results revealed that the highest cumulative methane production (CMP) of 297.99 NL/kgVS can be generated by co-digestion of ASWs and CD at a ratio of 60:40. Further improvement was achieved via alkalinity treatment with 1.0 g of NaHCO/gVS leading to decrease in lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose contents of feedstock by 3.5%, 10.5% and 15.9%, respectively, converting them to soluble fractions and improving the CMP by 11.2-29.7% based on substrate quality. The improved CMP in the chemically treated substrates reflects a 19% increase in the generated revenue. The kinetics of the AD process was successfully fitted to modified Gompertz model with very low standard deviation residuals (SDR) ≤ 5.21 and R ≥ 0.979. Results confirm that the proposed strategy is an effective method for producing biogas from co-digestion of ASWs and CD.

2 2
Process optimization and effect of thermal, alkaline, HO oxidation and combination pretreatment of sewage sludge on solubilization and anaerobic digestion.This study investigated the feasibility of enhancing anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge with triple, dual, and individual pretreatment of waste activated sludge with heat, alkalinity, and hydrogen peroxide. These pretreatments disrupt sludge flocs, organisms' cell walls, extracellular polymeric substance, and intracellular organic matter, which increase biodegradability and hydrolysis rate of activate sludge. In addition, the influence of various variables on methane production was analyzed using the response surface methodology with the quadratic model. Eventually, an optimized temperature and chemical concentration for the highest methane production and lowest chemical usage is suggested.
The highest amount of methane production was obtained from the sludge pretreated with triple pretreatment (heat (90 °C), alkaline (pH = 12), and hydrogen peroxide (30 mg HO/g TS)), which had better performance with 96% higher methane production than that of the control sample with temperature of 25 °C approximately and a pH = 8. Response surface methodology with a quadratic model was also used for analyzing the influence of temperature, pH, and hydrogen peroxide concentration on anaerobic digestion efficiency. It was revealed that the optimized temperature, pH, and hydrogen peroxide concentration for maximizing methane production and solubilization of sludge and minimizing thermal energy and chemical additives of the pretreatments are 83.2 °C, pH = 10.6 and 34.8 mg HO/g TS, respectively, has the desirability of 0.67.
This study reveals that triple pretreatment of waste activated sludge performed better than dual and individual pretreatment, respectively, in all desirable output parameters including increasing methane production as the most important output, increasing in COD solubilization, protein and polysaccharide, and decreasing in VSS solubilization.

Quantification of soluble recalcitrant compounds in commercial thermal hydrolysis digestates.Solid residues such as primary sludge (PS), waste activated sludge (WAS), and food waste (FW) can be stabilized through anaerobic digestion (AD). Application of the thermal hydrolysis process (THP) prior to AD results in several benefits in AD and dewatering. However, soluble recalcitrant compounds associated with Maillard reactions have been identified after THP which can impact downstream processes and water discharge limits. In this study, the soluble colloidal chemical oxygen demand, color, ultraviolet absorbance at 254 nm and dissolved organic nitrogen in seven full-scale THP facilities were quantified and compared. The THP substrate influenced the concentration of soluble melanoidin-associated compounds in the digestates. THP implementation in five water resource recovery facilities (WRRFs) was modeled and found to give a 3-8 mg/L increase on the water effluent COD concentration depending on the PS/WAS ratio. The results provide novel information useful in planning new WRRFs and optimization of existing facilities. PRACTITIONER POINTS: High amounts of WAS in substrate resulted in higher concentrations of CODsc, color and dissolved organic nitrogen in the digestate. Food waste treated at 145°C showed equal or lower concentrations of all components compared with sludge operated at 165°C. Installation of THP will increase the COD concentration in the water effluent of a water resource recovery facility. The characteristics of the THP substrate are important to consider in cost/benefit analysis when planning the installation of THP.

Effect of alkaline and alkaline-photocatalytic pretreatment on characteristics and biogas production of rice straw.To overcome recalcitrant nature and investigate enhancement of biogas production of rice straw (RS), it was subjected to pretreatment under mild conditions. Alkaline pretreatment using sodium hydroxide (NaOH), photocatalytic pretreatment utilizing titania nanoparticles (TiO NPs) and alkaline-photocatalytic pretreatment was used to disrupt the lignocellulose complex. As compared to raw RS, maximum biogas and methane enhancement due to alkaline pretreatment was observed for 1.5% w/v NaOH pretreated RS which was 50 and 71% respectively. Photocatalytic pretreatment of RS at 0.25 g/L TiO increased biogas and methane yield by 30 and 36% respectively. However, maximum biogas and methane enhancement was observed for alkaline-photocatalytic pretreatment at 1.5% w/v NaOH-0.25 g/L TiO which was 74 and 122% respectively. Comparatively high enhancements were observed during alkaline-photocatalytic combined pretreatment due to increased cellulose and decreased lignin content. Moreover, the experimental data obtained from the experiments were validated using a non-linear kinetic model.

Waste-to-Resource value chain optimisation: Combining spatial, chemical and technoeconomic aspects.Due to complex composition of carbohydrates, lipid, protein, cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin, wastewater (WW) and organic fraction municipal solid waste (OFMSW) represent nutrient and carbon rich resources. Conventionally, value chains in the waste sector have considered OFMSW and WW as unwanted by-products as opposed to potential valuable resources. Full exploitation of these resources calls for a value chain transformation towards proactive resource recovery. This study focuses on the waste supply chain optimisation to recover value added products from OFMSW. The research leads to a systems-modelling approach, which integrates spatial data analyses, mathematical mixed integer linear programming (MILP) optimisation and technology performance evaluation to inform the design of waste-to-resource value chains. A UK based study on OFMSW is presented to demonstrate the efficacy of the approach. The study captures variation in OFMSW quantity and composition, incorporating over 600 existing anaerobic digestion (AD) operational plants in the UK, while potential sites for new waste-recovery facilities are identified, accounting for transportation and logistics, using a GIS-based analysis. Key outcomes are analysed (technology type, size, location, logistical connections), placing emphasis on the need to consider the value of the resource recovery potential over the lifetime of an AD or thermochemical treatment facility in the design process. Such an approach offers a promising pathway for tackling the open challenges currently hindering the waste-to-resource transformation.

Comparison of furfural and biogas production using pentoses as platform.Coffee cut-stems (CCS), a biomass with high lignocellulosic content, is a coffee crop waste after bean harvesting. The main application of this material is as fuelwood for farmers, disregarding their carbohydrate content for biotechnological processes. In these terms, this work aims to compare three process scenarios for the experimental valorization of C5 fraction from CCS to produce biogas and furfural with and without the ethanol production from remaining C6 fraction under biorefinery concept. Therefore, an experimental stage was performed to obtain these products, based on a previous diluted acid pretreatment. The hydrolysate fraction was used to produce furfural and biogas, achieving yields of 0.34 g of furfural/g xylose and 81.1 mL of CH per gram of volatile solids. Concerning the solid fraction after acid pretreatment, it was used to produce ethanol with a previous enzymatic hydrolysis. After fermentation, 0.47 g of ethanol/g of glucose (92% of the theoretical yield) was obtained. These experimental results were fed to simulation models in order to compare three scenarios in technical, economic and environmental terms. As the main results, from technical point of view, the biogas production presents the lowest energy requirements. From the economic perspective, the furfural production presents a prefeasibility at the base scale of processing (e.g., 12.5 ton h). Meanwhile, the biogas scenario needs a processing capacity >22.5 ton h to achieve the economic prefeasibility. In the biorefinery case, the positive economic performance is found at processing scales above 83 ton h. This work concludes that the C5 sugars platform is identified as a potential alternative for the generation of furfural and biogas, however, in this case a multiproduct biorefinery system is not always the best option to valorize biomass given the very high scale required and the economic indicators.

Impacts of biofilms on the conversion of cellulose.Lignocellulose is a widely available renewable carbon source and a promising feedstock for the production of various chemicals in biorefineries. However, its recalcitrant nature is a major hurdle that must be overcome to enable economic conversion processes. Deconstruction of lignocellulose is part of the global carbon cycle, and efficient microbial degradation systems have evolved that might serve as models to improve commercial conversion processes. Biofilms-matrix encased, spatially organized clusters of microbial cells and the predominating lifestyle in nature-have been recognized for their essential role in the degradation of cellulose in nature, e.g., in soils or in the digestive tracts of ruminant animals. Cellulolytic biofilms allow for a high concentration of enzymes at the boundary layer between the solid substrate and the liquid phase and the more complete capture of hydrolysis products directly at the hydrolysis site, which is energetically favorable. Furthermore, enhanced expression of genes for carbohydrate active enzymes as a response to the attachment on solid substrate has been demonstrated for cellulolytic aerobic fungi and anerobic bacteria. In natural multispecies biofilms, the vicinity of different microbial species allows the creation of efficient food webs and synergistic interactions thereby, e.g., avoiding the accumulation of inhibiting metabolites. In this review, these topics are discussed and attempts to realize the benefits of biofilms in targeted applications such as the consolidated bioprocessing of lignocellulose are highlighted. KEY POINTS: Multispecies biofilms enable efficient lignocellulose destruction in the biosphere. Cellulose degradation by anaerobic bacteria often occurs by monolayered biofilms. Fungal biofilms immobilize enzymes and substrates in an external digestion system. Surface attached cultures typically show higher expression of cellulolytic enzymes.

Mixing strategies - Activated carbon nexus: Rapid start-up of thermophilic anaerobic digestion with the mesophilic anaerobic sludge as inoculum.This study evaluated the mixing - activate carbon nexus in anaerobic digestion with the aim of accelerating start-up of thermophilic anaerobic co-digestion of food waste and chicken manure using mesophilic anaerobic sludge as inoculum. Results showed that the methane yield in the continuous stirred reactor is 71.3% higher than that of intermittent agitated reactor, and the addition of activated carbon can further improve the yield of methane by 18.2%. Continuous mixing mode followed by intermittent mixing was proved to be an alternative strategy to accelerate start-up of thermophilic anaerobic digestion. The optimum mixing time of 120 s/hour were obtained using computational fluid dynamics modeling. Analysis of genomic annotation metabolism indicated that the addition of activated carbon enhanced the dominant metabolism pathways of amino acid, methane and energy. Results of enzymes gene expression suggested that carbohydrates esterases, glycoside hydrolases and glycosyl transferases were dominant, respectively.

Impact of low loading on digestion of the mechanically-separated organic fraction of municipal solid waste.Changing waste management practice, introduction of new technologies, and population demographics and behaviour will impact on both quantity and composition of future waste streams. Laboratory-scale anaerobic digestion of the mechanically-separated organic fraction of municipal solid waste (ms-OFMSW) was carried out at relatively low organic loading rates (OLR), and results analysed using an energy modelling tool. Thermophilic operation with water addition and liquor recycle was compared to co-digestion with dilution water replaced by sewage sludge digestate (SSD); thermophilic and mesophilic mono-digestion were also tested at low OLR. All thermophilic conditions showed stable operation, with specific methane production (SMP) from 0.203 to 0.296 m CH kg volatile solids (VS). SSD addition increased biogas production by ~20% and there was evidence of further hydrolysis and degradation of the SSD. Long-term operation at 1 kg VS m day had no adverse effect except in mesophilic conditions where SMP was lower at 0.256 m CH kg VS and stability was reduced, especially during OLR increases. This was probably due to low total ammonia nitrogen, which stabilised at ~0.2 g N kg and limited the buffering capacity. Energy analysis showed thermophilic operation at OLR 2 g VS L day gave 42% of the theoretical methane potential and 38% of the higher heating value, reducing to 37% and 34% respectively in mesophilic conditions. Scenario modelling indicated that under low ms-OFMSW load even an energy-depleted co-substrate such as SSD could contribute to the energy balance, and would be a better diluent than water due to its nutrient and buffering capacity.

Granular sludge is a preferable inoculum for the biochemical methane potential assay for two complex substrates.The biochemical methane potential (BMP) assay is a standard method for characterizing biomethane potential and anaerobic biodegradability organic waste streams. Therefore, the BMP protocol must be standardized to reliably compare these parameters for various substrates. Here, the effect of inoculum selection on biomethane potential was investigated through BMP tests using two different substrates and inocula obtained from four different anaerobic digesters. It was found that inocula in the form of granular sludge yielded overall higher biomethane potential and generally had faster kinetics than suspended biomass. Furthermore, acclimation of inocula to substrate appeared to have little effect on degradation rates, and co-inoculation (with both suspended and granular biomass) did not perform better than single inoculation (e.g., with suspended sludge alone). These results emphasize the role of granular sludge as an preferable inoculum for BMP assay.

Effect of organic compounds on dry anaerobic digestion of food and paper industry wastes.Effects of antimicrobial compounds on dry anaerobic digestion (dry-AD) processes were investigated. Four compounds with known inhibition effects on traditional wet digestion, car-3-ene, hexanal, 1-octanol and phenol were selected and investigated at concentrations of 0.005%, 0.05% and 0.5%. Food waste (FW) and Paper waste (PW) were used as model substrates, all assays were running with the substrate to inoculum ratio of 1:1 (VS basis) corresponding to 15% TS in reactors. Generally, increasing concentrations of inhibitors resulted in decreasing methane yields with a few exceptions; in all these specific cases, long, lag phase periods (60 days) were observed. These adaptation periods made possible for the microbial systems to acclimatize to otherwise not preferred conditions leading to higher methane yields. Comparing the effects of the four different groups, phenols had the highest inhibitory effects, with no methane production at the highest amount added, while the lowest effects were obtained in cases of car-3-ene. Furthermore, the results showed that adding inhibitors up to a certain concentrations can repair the balance in AD process, slowing down the degradation steps, hence making it possible for the methanogens to produce a higher amount of methane. This phenomenon was not observed in case of PW, which is already a slow degradable substrate in its nature.

Click chemistry-facilitated comprehensive identification of proteins adducted by antimicrobial 5-nitroimidazoles for discovery of alternative drug targets against giardiasis.Giardiasis and other protozoan infections are major worldwide causes of morbidity and mortality, yet development of new antimicrobial agents with improved efficacy and ability to override increasingly common drug resistance remains a major challenge. Antimicrobial drug development typically proceeds by broad functional screens of large chemical libraries or hypothesis-driven exploration of single microbial targets, but both strategies have challenges that have limited the introduction of new antimicrobials. Here, we describe an alternative drug development strategy that identifies a sufficient but manageable number of promising targets, while reducing the risk of pursuing targets of unproven value. The strategy is based on defining and exploiting the incompletely understood adduction targets of 5-nitroimidazoles, which are proven antimicrobials against a wide range of anaerobic protozoan and bacterial pathogens. Comprehensive adductome analysis by modified click chemistry and multi-dimensional proteomics were applied to the model pathogen Giardia lamblia to identify dozens of adducted protein targets common to both 5'-nitroimidazole-sensitive and -resistant cells. The list was highly enriched for known targets in G. lamblia, including arginine deiminase, α-tubulin, carbamate kinase, and heat shock protein 90, demonstrating the utility of the approach. Importantly, over twenty potential novel drug targets were identified. Inhibitors of two representative new targets, NADP-specific glutamate dehydrogenase and peroxiredoxin, were found to have significant antigiardial activity. Furthermore, all the identified targets remained available in resistant cells, since giardicidal activity of the respective inhibitors was not impacted by resistance to 5'-nitroimidazoles. These results demonstrate that the combined use of click chemistry and proteomics has the potential to reveal alternative drug targets for overcoming antimicrobial drug resistance in protozoan parasites.

Study of the digestion process at a full-scale solid-state biogas plant by using ORWARE: Model modification and implementation.The configuration of the reactor influences the digestion process and thus the product yields; other factors such as the rate of biogas production or biogas loss also affect the process specifically with high solid configuration. With these in mind, the ORganic WAste REsearch (ORWARE) anaerobic digestion sub-model was modified to be able to study solid-state anaerobic digestion (SS-AD) (using plug-flow reactor). The simulation results from the updated model agreed with the operational data with respect to methane yield, digestate yield and energy turnover. The model was found to be sensitive to changes in feedstock composition but to a lesser extent to changes in process temperature and retention time. By applying the model on several cases of liquid anaerobic digestion (L-AD), it was noticed that L-AD at mesophilic condition with 25 retention days seemed to be superior to other cases of L-AD with regard to energy turnover. However, even if similar methane production were observed for L-AD and SS-AD, the model suggested higher energy turnover for the case of SS-AD at thermophilic condition, being 10% more in average in comparison with cases of L-AD.

4 2
Mitigation of diffuse CH and HS emissions from the liquid phase of UASB-based sewage treatment plants: challenges, techniques, and perspectives.Upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactors are considered to be a sustainable and well-established technology for sewage treatment in warm climate countries. However, gases dissolved in the effluent of these reactors, CH and HS in some instances, are a major drawback. These dissolved gases can be emitted into the atmosphere downstream of the anaerobic reactors, resulting in odour nuisance and, in the case of HS, corrosion, while in the case of CH, increasing greenhouse gas emissions with a significant loss of potentially recoverable energy. In this sense, this study aims to provide a critical review of the recent efforts to control CH and HS dissolved in UASB reactor effluents, with a focus on the different available techniques. Different desorption techniques have been tested for the removal/recovery of dissolved CH and HS: diffused aeration, simplified desorption chamber, packed desorption chamber, closed downflow hanging sponge reactor, membrane contactor, and vacuum desorption chamber. Other recent publications addressing the oxidation of these compounds in biological posttreatments with simultaneous nitrification/denitrification of ammonia were also discussed. Additionally, the rationale of CH recovery was determined by energy balance and carbon footprint approaches, and the HS removal was examined by modelling its emission and atmospheric dispersion.

The performance evaluation and kinetics response of advanced anaerobic digestion for sewage sludge under different SRT during semi-continuous operation.Sludge retention time (SRT) is vital for advanced anaerobic digestion (AD) to realize energy self-sufficient. However, the criteria on reasonable SRT has not been fully understood. This study investigated the performance and kinetics response of AD under different SRT in semi-continuous AD with microwave (MW) pretreatment, according to the long-term operation and methane production during one feeding interval. Results showed that modified Gompertz model better described the kinetics than first-order model. At short SRT (15 d), pretreatment coupled with two-stage AD preserved methane production with the high attainable methane potential (B) of 257.98 mL/g VS and hydrolysis rate constant (k) of 0.075 h. But the acceptable decrease of methane production rate seems to be unavoidable, which was possibly derived from the evolution of methanogenesis pathway. This study emphasized the importance of improved methane production rate in semi-continuous AD under short SRT rather than methane production potential obtained from batch experiment.

Comparison of anaerobic digesters performance treating palmitic, stearic and oleic acid: determination of the LCFA kinetic constants using ADM1.In this work, the process performance of three parallel anaerobic digesters was evaluated while treating emulsified long-chain fatty acids (LCFA) (i.e., palmitic, stearic and oleic acid) at two different organic loading rates (OLR) (2 and 4 g L day). The digester treating palmitic acid achieved a biogas yield of 0.42 ± 0.05 L g COD with a digester effluent COD of 2.3 ± 0.4 g L and VFA concentrations below 250 mg L. Stearic acid showed lower biogas yield values (0.34 ± 0.05 L g COD) with low effluent COD (2.5 ± 0.4 g L) and VFA concentrations (< 350 mg L). On the contrary, anaerobic digestion of oleic acid was accompanied with increased effluent COD (4.5 ± 0.7 g L) and VFA concentrations (2.7 ± 1.5 g L). As such, COD removal efficiency remained at 89 ± 1% compared to 95 ± 1% for the digesters treating palmitic and stearic acid. During continuous digester operation, there was a decrease in VFA concentrations (around 1-2 g L), combined with increasing biogas yield values up to 0.51 ± 0.04 L g COD, possibly due to biomass adaptation to oleic acid. Digester foaming was recorded when the accumulated COD was higher than 200, 1200 and 500 mg COD g MLSS for the digester treating palmitic, stearic and oleic acid, respectively. ADM1 simulation allowed for the determination of the maximum specific LCFA consumption rate constant (km) which was equal to 4.8, 1.6 and 8.0 day for palmitic, stearic and oleic acid respectively.

Microbiome-derived carnitine mimics as previously unknown mediators of gut-brain axis communication.Alterations to the gut microbiome are associated with various neurological diseases, yet evidence of causality and identity of microbiome-derived compounds that mediate gut-brain axis interaction remain elusive. Here, we identify two previously unknown bacterial metabolites 3-methyl-4-(trimethylammonio)butanoate and 4-(trimethylammonio)pentanoate, structural analogs of carnitine that are present in both gut and brain of specific pathogen-free mice but absent in germ-free mice. We demonstrate that these compounds are produced by anaerobic commensal bacteria from the family Lachnospiraceae (Clostridiales) family, colocalize with carnitine in brain white matter, and inhibit carnitine-mediated fatty acid oxidation in a murine cell culture model of central nervous system white matter. This is the first description of direct molecular inter-kingdom exchange between gut prokaryotes and mammalian brain cells, leading to inhibition of brain cell function.

Populus L
Process optimization for the anaerobic digestion of poplar (.) leaves.This study investigates the optimized condition for enhancing biogas production in the anaerobic digestion of fallen poplar leaves. Two experiments were conducted: (1) The calcium hydroxide concentration, bacteria concentration, and composting time were used as three parameters to optimize the fermentation pretreatment condition and contrasting tests were performed; and (2) a series of fermentation tests were conducted to explore the best process parameters and biogas production characteristics. The results showed that a biological and chemical combined pretreatment effectively improved the biogas productivity of poplar leaves as fermentation substrates, and the parameter that had the greatest effect during anaerobic digestion was temperature followed by the solid concentration and pH value. The optimal pretreatment condition was: alkali concentration 4.61%, bacterial concentration 0.20‰, and a composting time of 6.6 days. By considering the factors that affect the fermentation of poplar leaves and the cumulative gas production, the optimum condition for poplar leave digestion was found to be a temperature of 30°C, a pH of 7, and a 10% solid concentration. In addition, the methane yield of the optimized trial was well fitted using the modified Gompertz model.

Absorption and biotransformation of four compounds in the Guizhi decoction in the gastrointestinal tracts of rats.To study the absorption and biotransformation of liquiritin, cinnamic acid, paeoniflorin, and glycyrrhizic acid in the Guizhi decoction (GZD) in the gastrointestinal tracts of rats.
A simple and reliable high-performance liquid chromatography method was established and validated for the analysis of the four components of GZD simultaneously in the gastrointestinal tracts of rats. Rats were randomly divided into in situ gastrointestinal loop model, in vitro anaerobic culture model, and blank control groups. All rats were fasted for 12 h and anesthetized using 20% urethane. Subsequently, the abdominal cavity of each rat was opened, and the stomach, duodenum, jejunum, ileum, cecum, and colon were ligated. For the in situ gastrointestinal loop model group, 2.5 mL of GZD (1.0 g crude drug/mL, 37 ℃) were injected into the gastrointestinal tract. The abdominal incision was covered with warm, wet cotton, and animals were maintained at 25 ℃ . Then, we collected the gastrointestinal tract content after 1.5 h. For the in vitro anaerobic culture model group, the gastrointestinal tract contents of rats were collected and then cultured in 2.5 mL of GZD in an anaerobic environment at 25 ℃ for 24 h. For the blank control group, rats received the same volume of a normal saline solution instead of GZD. High performance liquid chromatography was used to detect the liquiritin, cinnamic acid, paeoniflorin, and glycyrrhizic acid concentrations in each group and calculate the absorption and biotransformation rates of each ingredient.
Cinnamic acid (low polarity) was more easily absorbed by each gastrointestinal part than the higher-polarity glycosides. However, the absorption rate in the cecum was higher than that in other parts. The four compounds, cinnamic acid, liquiritin, paeoniflorin, and glycyrrhizic acid, were transformed completely within 24 h in the cecum and colon, whereas they were hardly transformed in the stomach, excluding glycyrrhizic acid. In addition, all ingredients had higher biotransformation rates in the distal small intestine than that in the proximal small intestine.
Although a portion of the glycosides in GZD was directly absorbed as the prototype forms in the gastrointestinal tract, they were primarily metabolized and transformed into their corresponding metabolites by intestinal flora near the distal small intestine before their absorption.

The influence of variables on the bioavailability of heavy metals during the anaerobic digestion of swine manure.The speciation of heavy metals, besides the total concentrations, urgently need to be considered when assessing the eco-toxicity and the bioavailability of heavy metals in environment. This paper aims to investigate the distribution and chemical speciation (e.g. the acid extractable fraction (F1), the reducible fraction (F2), the oxidizable fraction (F3), and the residual fraction (F4)) of heavy metals during the anaerobic digestion process of swine manure. The majority of six heavy metals from the manure was located in biogas residue in the order of decreasing concentration Zn > Cu > Ni > As > Pb > Cd. The transformation of heavy metals among four fractions was observed during the digestion process, and the change of bioavailable fraction of Zn, Cu, Ni, Cd, As and Pb were 9.71%, -6.04%, -19.24%, 13.62%, -16.48% and -7.22%, respectively. The heat map of correlation coefficients and the stepwise linear regressions model were established to describe the correlation between the bioavailability of the metals and the given digestion variables to predict the influence of the selected variables on the bioavailability of heavy metals. The variations of heavy metal bioavailable fractions are attributed to three key digestion variables, NH-N concentration, CH% in biogas daily yield and pH. These results provide a new perspective for analysis and control of heavy metals during the anaerobic digestion process.

Recalcitrant dissolved organic nitrogen formation in thermal hydrolysis pretreatment of municipal sludge.Thermal hydrolysis pretreatment (THP) has been considered as an advanced approach to enhance the performance of anaerobic digestion treating municipal sludge. However, several drawbacks were also identified with THP including the formation of brown and ultraviolet-quenching compounds that contain recalcitrant dissolved organic nitrogen (rDON). Melanoidins produced from the Maillard reaction between reducing sugar and amino group have been regarded as a representative of such compounds. This review presented the state-of-the-art understanding of the mechanism of melanoidin formation derived from the research of sludge THP, food processing, and model Maillard reaction systems. Special attentions were paid to factors affecting melanoidin formation and their implications to the control of rDON in the sludge THP process. These factors include reactant availability, heating temperature and time, pH, and the presence of metallic ions. It was concluded that efforts need to be focused on elucidating the extent of the Maillard reaction in sludge THP. This paper aims to provide a mechanistic recommendation on the research and control of the THP-resulted rDON in municipal wastewater treatment plants.

Exploitation of the ADM1 in a XXI century wastewater resource recovery facility (WRRF): The case of codigestion and thermal hydrolysis.The aim of this study is to test the capability of the anaerobic digestion model n1 (ADM1) to reproduce data from full-scale digesters operated in a wastewater resource recovery facility (WRRF) where both thermal hydrolysis and codigestion with industrial waste are carried out. Furthermore, the potential uses of the model in a WRRF are also described, with particular relevance for plant engineers/operators. The model capability was calibrated and validated with data from full-scale digesters from the Mapocho-Trebal WRRF (Biofactoría) in Santiago, Chile. A success simulation rate, defined as the percentage of experimental values of a certain variable that lies within the simulation band given by a simulation tolerance established by the user/operator, was established to test the capability of the model as objectively as possible. Regarding the full-scale digester fed with thermally pretreated mixed sludge, success rates of 65% for biogas production and 60-100% for other variables were achieved. Regarding the full-scale digester in codigestion mode, the model had a success rate of approximately 60% for predicting the biogas flow for the whole evaluation period, while for the other variables, values between 70 and 100% were attained. The lowest success rates were observed for the volatile fatty acid (VFA) concentration in the digestate. Despite the lack of available data and the number of assumptions that had to be made, the model was demonstrated to be capable of reproducing the behavior of the full-scale reactors. A proper, up-to-date, calibrated and validated model can aid in the decision-making process in a WRRF, for instance, in determining some unmeasured inlet conditions, in improving the resilience of the process and in managing the incorporation of a new cosubstrate into the plant, among others.

Capsicum annuum in vitro
Stability and anti-topoisomerase activity of phenolic compounds of  "Serrano" after gastrointestinal digestion and  colonic fermentation."Serrano" pepper is extensively used in Mexican cuisine. The aim of this study was to identify the bioaccessible phenolic compounds (PC) of "Serrano" pepper as well as short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) produced and PC bioconverted using an  step-wise gastromimetic model of the intestinal digestion and anaerobic fermentation of the isolated indigestible fraction (IF). The anti-topoisomerase activity of the fermented samples was also evaluated. PC bioaccessibility was about 45% in the small intestine. Chlorogenic acid and capsaicin were identified during the intestinal digestion, while quercetin was identified as available to the gut microbiota. After 48-h fermentation, SCFA molar ratio was 77:11:12 for acetic, propionic and butyric acid. The PC identified in IF and after 12 h of fermentation showed anti-topoisomerase activity. A synergistic effect among the PC and gut metabolites mixture was observed, which indicates a possible antiproliferative mechanism that should be tested in further studies.

Gut Epithelial Metabolism as a Key Driver of Intestinal Dysbiosis Associated with Noncommunicable Diseases.In high-income countries, the leading causes of death are noncommunicable diseases (NCDs), such as obesity, cancer, and cardiovascular disease. An important feature of most NCDs is inflammation-induced gut dysbiosis characterized by a shift in the microbial community structure from obligate to facultative anaerobes such as  This microbial imbalance can contribute to disease pathogenesis by either a depletion in or the production of microbiota-derived metabolites. However, little is known about the mechanism by which inflammation-mediated changes in host physiology disrupt the microbial ecosystem in our large intestine leading to disease. Recent work by our group suggests that during gut homeostasis, epithelial hypoxia derived from peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ (PPAR-γ)-dependent β-oxidation of microbiota-derived short-chain fatty acids limits oxygen availability in the colon, thereby maintaining a balanced microbial community. During inflammation, disruption in gut anaerobiosis drives expansion of facultative anaerobic , regardless of their pathogenic potential. Therefore, our research group is currently exploring the concept that dysbiosis-associated expansion of  can be viewed as a microbial signature of epithelial dysfunction and may play a greater role in different models of NCDs, including diet-induced obesity, atherosclerosis, and inflammation-associated colorectal cancer.

Phosphorus recovery from the liquid phase of anaerobic digestate using biochar derived from iron-rich sludge: A potential phosphorus fertilizer.A novel technique for phosphorus recovery from the liquid phase of anaerobic digestate was developed using biochar derived from iron-rich sludge (dewatered sludge conditioned with Fenton's reagent). The biochar pyrolyzed from iron-rich sludge at a low temperature of 300 °C (referred to as Fe-300 biochar) showed a better phosphorus (P) adsorption capacity (most of orthophosphate and pyrophosphate) than biochars pyrolyzed at other higher temperatures of 500-900 °C, with the maximum P adsorption capacity of up to 1.843 mg g for the liquid phase of anaerobic digestate. Adsorption isotherms study indicated that 70% P was precipitated through chemical reaction with Fe elements, i.e., Fe(II) and Fe(III) existed on the surface of the Fe-300 biochar, and other 30% was through surface physical adsorption as simulated by a dual Langmuir-Langmuir model using the potassium dihydrogen orthophosphate (KHPO) as a model solution. The seed germination rate was increased up to 92% with the addition of Fe-300 biochar after adsorbing most of P, compared with 66% without the addition of biochar. Moreover, P adsorbed by the chemical reaction in form of iron hydrogen phosphate can be solubilized by a phosphate-solubilizing microorganism of Pseudomonas aeruginosa, with the total solubilized P amount of 3.045 mg g at the end of an incubation of 20 days. This study indicated that the iron-rich sludge-derived biochar could be used as a novel and beneficial functional material for P recovery from the liquid phase of anaerobic digestate. The recovered P with biochar can be re-utilized in garden soil as an efficient P-fertilizer, thus increasing the added values of both the liquid phase of anaerobic digestate and the iron-rich sludge.

Modelization of anaerobic processes during co-digestion of slowly biodegradable substrates.The influence of the soluble substrates over the anaerobic processes has been extensively investigated, but little is known about the effects of particulate substrate. The biodegradation of these substrates starts with the hydrolytic step, this process is slower than the other ones involved in the biodegradation of particulate substrates and usually becomes the rate-limiting step. This study investigate the effect of the initial total solids (TS) concentration on the anaerobic co-digestion of two slowly biodegradable organic substrates. The wastes mixtures were prepared at different dilutions in the range from 10% to 28% TS. From these experiments it was observed that as TS concentration increased, the methane production decreased. These results were modelled and it was observed that neither hydrolysis nor fermentation stages controlled the methane production rate. Being a substrate inhibition event experienced at the methanogenic stage the responsible of the lower methane production when operating at high TS concentrations.

A model predictive optimal control system for the practical automatic start-up of anaerobic digesters.The optimal automatic start-up of anaerobic digesters has remained an elusive problem over the years to be solved at the lowest possible costs, including that of process monitoring. In this work, a non-linear model predictive control (NMPC) system was developed, under two proposed configurations, for the optimal start-up of anaerobic digesters treating soluble non-recalcitrant substrates. The minimum set of low cost practical control variables (CVs) selected for process start-up include (i) the effluent quality as acetate COD, (ii) the level of aceticlastic methanogenic biomass in the reactor, and (iii) the methane production rate (only for one of the NMPC configurations). The manipulated variables (MVs) consist of the volumetric inflow rates of the organic substrate, dilution water, and of a possible concentrated alkali addition. To be able to apply the above selected CVs (technically and economically feasible to measure/estimate), a simplified tailored AD model was specifically designed as the prediction model, integral part of the NMPC system. The NMPC system developed was evaluated for a case scenario consisting of the automatic start-up of a high rate AD reactor treating a readily biodegradable carbohydrate based substrate. The AD plant was virtually represented by the complex Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1. Compared to other manual start-up strategies, the two configurations of the NMPC developed appeared to reach the target methane production rate faster (39 and 18 days for the NMPC versus 70-75 days for the manual strategies) together with an overall superior CV set-point tracking error performance. Interestingly, the two configurations of the NMPC developed appear to propose two very different, almost opposite, start-up feeding strategies to both eventually start-up the reactor successfully with no process destabilizations throughout. A number of practical scenarios were also considered to evaluate the NMPC configurations for robustness and any possible improvements. These tests indicate that the NMPC objective function formulation is a key factor of the success and robustness exhibited during start-up.

Effect of restricted dissolved oxygen on expression of Clostridium difficile toxin A subunit from E. coli.The repeating unit of the C. difficile Toxin A (rARU, also known as CROPS [combined repetitive oligopeptides]) C-terminal region, was shown to elicit protective immunity against C. difficile and is under consideration as a possible vaccine against this pathogen. However, expression of recombinant rARU in E. coli using the standard vaccine production process was very low. Transcriptome and proteome analyses showed that at restricted dissolved oxygen (DO) the numbers of differentially expressed genes (DEGs) was 2.5-times lower than those expressed at unrestricted oxygen. Additionally, a 7.4-times smaller number of ribosome formation genes (needed for translation) were down-regulated as compared with unrestricted DO. Higher rARU expression at restricted DO was associated with up-regulation of 24 heat shock chaperones involved in protein folding and with the up-regulation of the global regulator RNA chaperone hfq. Cellular stress response leading to down-regulation of transcription, translation, and energy generating pathways at unrestricted DO were associated with lower rARU expression. Investigation of the C. difficile DNA sequence revealed the presence of cell wall binding profiles, which based on structural similarity prediction by BLASTp, can possibly interact with cellular proteins of E. coli such as the transcriptional repressor ulaR, and the ankyrins repeat proteins. At restricted DO, rARU mRNA was 5-fold higher and the protein expression 27-fold higher compared with unrestricted DO. The report shows a strategy for improved production of C. difficile vaccine candidate in E. coli by using restricted DO growth. This strategy could improve the expression of recombinant proteins from anaerobic origin or those with cell wall binding profiles.

Effects of different conductive nanomaterials on anaerobic digestion process and microbial community of sludge.The effects of four conductive nanomaterials (nano-carbon powder, nano-AlO, nano-ZnO, nano-CuO) on sludge anaerobic digestion (AD) performance and microbial community were investigated through a 36-day fermentation experiment. Results showed that biogas production enhanced by 16.9% and 23.4% with nano-carbon powder and nano-AlO added but decreased by 90.2% and 17.3% with nano-ZnO and nano-CuO. Total solids (TS) removal efficiency was increased by 38.73% and 27.11% with nano-carbon powder and nano-AlO added but decreased by 70.67% and 43.70% with nano-ZnO and nano-CuO. Kinetic analysis indicated four conductive nanomaterials could shorten the lag phase of AD sludge with an average rate of 51.75%. 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing results demonstrated microbes such as Syntrophomonas and Methanosaeta were enriched in nano-carbon powder and nano-AlO reactors. However, microbial community diversity and richness were both inhibited by adding nano-ZnO and nano-CuO. Redundancy analysis (RDA) revealed that genera belong to Firmicutes and Chloroflexi could conduce to methanogenesis process.

A simple kinetic model applied to anaerobic digestion of cow manure.A simple model of anaerobic degradation in a continuous stirred digester is presented. The hydrolysis of cow manure was modelled as consisting of two fractions, one rapidly degradable and the other more slowly degradable, and both processes were represented by first-order kinetics in a two-substrate first-order (TSFO) model. The fractions were separated by water flushing. Biomethane potential (BMP) tests were performed to determine the hydrolysis constant and biodegradability of each fraction. The hydrolysis constants of the rapidly and slowly degradable fractions were 0.278 and 0.069 d, respectively. Coupled with a simple anaerobic digestion model, the TSFO model was used to simulate the digester behaviour and predict methane production. Experiments in a 3.0 L digester were used to determine the decay constant and yield values and to validate the model. Two solid loads (2.9 and 4.4 gVS/L.d) were applied to the digester, and the dynamics of both biodegradable fractions, the non-biodegradable fraction and the microorganism concentration were reproduced by the model. These results approximate the actual biodegradable solids removal to within 85%. A parametric sensitivity study was performed, and the results show that the hydrolysis constant mainly influences the biodegradable fractions and that the decay and yield parameters mainly influence the microorganism concentration.

Anaerobic bioconversion of petrochemical wastewater to biomethane in a semi-continuous bioreactor: Biodegradability, mineralization behaviors and methane productivity.Petrochemical wastewaters treatment represents a serious challenge due to the high toxicity and complex chemical components. In this study, the biodegradability, mineralization behaviors and methane productivity of eight different types of petrochemical wastewaters were evaluated in series of semi-continuous bioreactors. Methane production strongly depended on the characteristics of wastewaters and chemical constituents. The highest methane yield of 305.9 ± 2.7 mL/g-COD was achieved by purified terephthalic acid wastewater, followed by ethylene glycol, polyester, etc. Comparatively, one-step-SCN wastewater produced the lowest methane yield (4.7 ± 0.7 mL/g-COD) owing to high toxicity and low biodegradability. Modified Gompertz model confirmed that purified terephthalic acid, ethylene glycol and polyester wastewaters had a short lag-phase of 1.2, 1.7 and 0.2 days, respectively. Nonetheless, the formation of by-products such as proteins, polysaccharides and ammonia nitrogen throughout anaerobic digestion reflected the high activity of anaerobic microorganisms, confirming the technical feasibility of anaerobic biotechnology in treating petrochemical wastewaters.

Algae as potential feedstock for the production of biofuels and value-added products: Opportunities and challenges.The current review explores the potential application of algal biomass for the production of biofuels and bio-based products. The variety of processes and pathways through which bio-valorization of algal biomass can be performed are described in this review. Various lipid extraction techniques from algal biomass along with transesterification reactions for biodiesel production are briefly discussed. Processes such as the pretreatment and saccharification of algal biomass, fermentation, gasification, pyrolysis, hydrothermal liquefaction, and anaerobic digestion for the production of biohydrogen, bio-oils, biomethane, biochar (BC), and various bio-based products are reviewed in detail. The biorefinery model and its collaborative approach with various processes are highlighted for the production of eco-friendly, sustainable, and cost-effective biofuels and value-added products. The authors also discuss opportunities and challenges related to bio-valorization of algal biomass and use their own perspective regarding the processes involved in production and the feasibility to make algal research a reality for the production of biofuels and bio-based products in a sustainable manner.

Synergistic effect of sugarcane scum as an accelerant co-substrate on anaerobic co-digestion with agricultural crop residues from non-centrifugal cane sugar agribusiness sector.Anaerobic co-digestion (AcoD) of the main residues from the non-centrifugal cane sugar (NCS) making process, agricultural crop residues (ACR) and sugarcane scum (SCS), was evaluated using biochemical methane potential tests. Substrates were pretreated: ACR through particle size reduction, and SCS with dilution. The maximum methane yield of 0.276 Nm CH kg VS occurred at an ACR of 2 mm and at 12.5% dilution of SCS, at a ratio of 75:25 based on volatile solids, which was 30.2% and 5.9% higher compared to SCS and ACR in mono-digestion, respectively. ACR was a substrate of adequate buffer capacity for the AcoD stability, while the SCS, in addition to helping accelerate the process, also helped improve the inoculum's methanogenic and hydrolytic activity. The first-order kinetic and dual-pool two-step models were suitable to describe methane yield. AcoD of ACR with SCS is a good option for the treatment of streams in the NCS agribusiness sector.

Self-reinoculation with fecal flora changes microbiota density and composition leading to an altered bile-acid profile in the mouse small intestine.The upper gastrointestinal tract plays a prominent role in human physiology as the primary site for enzymatic digestion and nutrient absorption, immune sampling, and drug uptake. Alterations to the small intestine microbiome have been implicated in various human diseases, such as non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and inflammatory bowel conditions. Yet, the physiological and functional roles of the small intestine microbiota in humans remain poorly characterized because of the complexities associated with its sampling. Rodent models are used extensively in microbiome research and enable the spatial, temporal, compositional, and functional interrogation of the gastrointestinal microbiota and its effects on the host physiology and disease phenotype. Classical, culture-based studies have documented that fecal microbial self-reinoculation (via coprophagy) affects the composition and abundance of microbes in the murine proximal gastrointestinal tract. This pervasive self-reinoculation behavior could be a particularly relevant study factor when investigating small intestine microbiota. Modern microbiome studies either do not take self-reinoculation into account, or assume that approaches such as single housing mice or housing on wire mesh floors eliminate it. These assumptions have not been rigorously tested with modern tools. Here, we used quantitative 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing, quantitative microbial functional gene content inference, and metabolomic analyses of bile acids to evaluate the effects of self-reinoculation on microbial loads, composition, and function in the murine upper gastrointestinal tract.
In coprophagic mice, continuous self-exposure to the fecal flora had substantial quantitative and qualitative effects on the upper gastrointestinal microbiome. These differences in microbial abundance and community composition were associated with an altered profile of the small intestine bile acid pool, and, importantly, could not be inferred from analyzing large intestine or stool samples. Overall, the patterns observed in the small intestine of non-coprophagic mice (reduced total microbial load, low abundance of anaerobic microbiota, and bile acids predominantly in the conjugated form) resemble those typically seen in the human small intestine.
Future studies need to take self-reinoculation into account when using mouse models to evaluate gastrointestinal microbial colonization and function in relation to xenobiotic transformation and pharmacokinetics or in the context of physiological states and diseases linked to small intestine microbiome and to small intestine dysbiosis. Video abstract.

Impact of corn stover particle size and C/N ratio on reactor performance in solid-state anaerobic co-digestion with dairy manure.Green energy generation from agricultural waste has the potential to minimize dependency on fossil and reduce the resultant environmental impact of this fuel provided anaerobic reactor performance is optimized. Hence, the interactive impact of carbon to nitrogen (C/N) ratio, particle size, and co-digestion of dairy manure (DM) and corn stover (CS) on solid-state anaerobic digester (SSAD) performance was investigated with four treatments (DMCS24S, DMCS24L, DMCS28L, and DMCS32L) in this solid-state study. Novel scanning electron microscope (SEM) image analysis utilized to describe the corn stover using ImageJ indicated that corn stover of particle size 0.18-0.42 mm had lower rough surface texture relative to the 0.42-0.84 mm size. This observation not only influenced the ingestate degradation, the bioconversion rate was negatively affected by 0.18-0.42 mm particle size of corn stover. Notably, increase in C/N ratio led to decrease in total ammonia nitrogen (TAN) and alkalinity concentration (Alk), hence, treatments with the lowest C/N ratio had better reactor performance in terms of suitable process parameters such as Alk, pH, ORP, and TAN. Furthermore, DMCS24L treatment had the highest methane yield (106 mL/g VS) and net methane energy (2.92 MJ/kg). Interestingly, modified Gompertz model gave the best kinetic description of the methane production. This SSAD mesophilic study suggests that corn stover, with particle size of 0.42-0.84 mm, co-digested with dairy manure under a C/N ratio of 24 has the potential to enhance methane yield and optimize reactor performance.: The utilization of agricultural waste for bioenergy generation through solid-state anaerobic digestion could be enhanced through the interactive impact of substrate particle size, carbon-to-nitrogen (C/N) ratio and co-digestion, which has not been previously studied. These ternary factors significantly improved reactor performance and enhanced methane yield when corn stover of 0.42-0.84 mm particle size was co-digested with dairy manure to achieve a C/N ratio of 24.

2
ADM1 approach to the performance optimisation and biogas HS prediction of a large-scale anaerobic reactor fed on sugarcane vinasse.In this paper, we present extensions to the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) to simulate hydrogen sulphide in biogas and solids retention efficiency. The extended model was calibrated and validated against data from a large-scale covered in-ground anaerobic reactor (CIGAR), processing sugarcane vinasse. Comparative scenarios and set-ups of a CIGAR with and without a settling tank unit (settler) were simulated to investigate the reactor's performance. Biogas flow, methane content, and yield with settler were 15,983 Nm/d, 57%, and 0.198 NmCH/kgCOD, respectively, which were 9.4%, 1.8%, and 11.64%, higher than without the settler. Improvements are combination of influent flow rate 116% higher and increased solids retention time by using a settler. The optimised modelled reactor, the volume of which was reduced by 50%, was able to produce 83% more methane per volume of reactor with half the retention time. After model calibration and validation, we assessed the quality of predictions and its utility. The overall quality of predictions was assessed as high accuracy quantitative for CH and medium for HS and biogas flow. A practical demonstration of ADM1 to industrial application is presented here to identify the potential optimisation and behaviour of a large-scale anaerobic reactor, reducing, consequently, expenditure, risk, and time.

On-line optimization of biomethane production in continuous AD processes via model-based ESC approach.This paper is aimed at designing a class of model based extremum-seeking feedback controllers (ESC) for the on-line optimization of biomethane production rate in continuous anaerobic digestion (AD) processes. The ESC scheme is based on the modelling error compensation approach coupled with a first-order gradient estimator. The feedback control law is able to keep the concentration of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) near the unknown optimal setpoint while the methane production rate is maximized. Unlike other ESC algorithms applied to AD processes, the proposed control scheme includes a continuous uncertain estimator and avoids excessive oscillations in the control action. Numerical simulations compare the performance of the proposed ESC controller with traditional perturbation-based and sliding mode based approaches.

Model-based investigation of membrane biofilm reactors coupling anammox with nitrite/nitrate-dependent anaerobic methane oxidation.An innovative process coupling anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) with nitrite/nitrate-dependent anaerobic methane oxidation (n-DAMO) in membrane biofilm reactors (MBfRs) has been developed to achieve high-level nitrogen removal from both sidestream (i.e., anaerobic digestion liquor) and mainstream (i.e., domestic strength) wastewater. In this study, a 1D biofilm model embedding the n-DAMO and anammox reactions was developed to facilitate further understanding of the process and its optimization. The model was calibrated and validated using comprehensive data sets from two independent MBfRs, treating sidestream- and mainstream-strength wastewater, respectively. Modelling results revealed a unique biofilm stratification. While anammox bacteria dominated throughout the biofilm, n-DAMO archaea (coupling nitrate reduction with anaerobic methane oxidation) only occurred at the inner layer and n-DAMO bacteria (coupling nitrite reduction with anaerobic methane oxidation) spread more evenly with a slightly higher fraction in the outer layer. The established MBfRs were robust against dynamic influent flowrates and nitrite/ammonium ratios. Thicker biofilms were beneficial for not only the total nitrogen (TN) removal but also the system robustness. Additionally, a positive correlation between the nitrogen removal efficiency and the residual methane emission was observed, as a result of higher methane partial pressure required. However, there was a threshold of methane partial pressure, above which the residual methane increased but nitrogen removal efficiency was stable. Meanwhile, thicker biofilms were also favorable to achieve less residual methane emission. Simulation results also suggested the feasibility of methane-based MBfRs to polish mainstream anammox effluent to meet a stringent N discharge standard (e.g., TN < 5 mg/L).

Fate of antibiotic resistance genes during high-solid anaerobic co-digestion of pig manure with lignite.Lignite could be used to promote methane production during high-solid anaerobic co-digestion (HS-AcoD) of pig manure, however, the effects of lignite amendment on the fate of ARGs during HS-AcoD are unknown. Here, we explored the influence of lignite (0%, 8%, 16%, 32%, and 64%) on the fate of ARGs during HS-AcoD of pig manure. The results showed that 16% lignite reduced the absolute abundance of ARGs by 28.71% compared with the 0% lignite treatment. Variation partitioning analysis suggested the combined effect of microbial community, mobile genetic elements (MGEs) and environmental factors was the major driver shaping the pattern of ARGs. The potential hosts of ARGs were Bifidobacterium, Lactobacillus, Tissierella and Streptococcus. Structural equation models analysis suggested lignite indirectly impacted the pattern of ARGs by significantly reducing the abundance of microbial community and MGEs. These findings give an insight into the mechanistic understanding of the lignite influence on the reduction of ARGs during HS-AcoD.

Use of Physiologically Based Kinetic Modeling to Predict Rat Gut Microbial Metabolism of the Isoflavone Daidzein to S-Equol and Its Consequences for ERα Activation.To predict gut microbial metabolism of xenobiotics and the resulting plasma concentrations of metabolites formed, an in vitro-in silico-based testing strategy is developed using the isoflavone daidzein and its gut microbial metabolite S-equol as model compounds.
Anaerobic rat fecal incubations are optimized and performed to derive the apparent maximum velocities (V ) and Michaelis-Menten constants (K ) for gut microbial conversion of daidzein to dihydrodaidzein, S-equol, and O-desmethylangolensin, which are input as parameters for a physiologically based kinetic (PBK) model. The inclusion of gut microbiota in the PBK model allows prediction of S-equol concentrations and slightly reduced predicted maximal daidzein concentrations from 2.19 to 2.16 µm. The resulting predicted concentrations of daidzein and S-equol are comparable to in vivo concentrations reported.
The optimized in vitro approach to quantify kinetics for gut microbial conversions, and the newly developed PBK model for rats that includes gut microbial metabolism, provide a unique tool to predict the in vivo consequences of daidzein microbial metabolism for systemic exposure of the host to daidzein and its metabolite S-equol. The predictions reveal a dominant role for daidzein in ERα-mediated estrogenicity despite the higher estrogenic potency of its microbial metabolite S-equol.

Municipal wastewater treatment by purple phototropic bacteria at low infrared irradiances using a photo-anaerobic membrane bioreactor.Light energy is one of the major costs for phototrophic systems. This study evaluated the photoreactor efficiency of purple phototropic bacteria anaerobic membrane bioreactor (PAnMBR) at low irradiance for the treatment of municipal wastewater. Infrared irradiance levels of 3.0 and 1.4 W/m produced by an infrared (IR) lamp emitting in the 800-900 nm wavelength range were investigated, with the ultimate goal of optimizing the irradiance energy demand. Experimental and modeling results demonstrated the ability of PPB to grow and treat raw municipal wastewater at the applied low irradiances, with effluent quality below target limits of TCOD˂50 mg/L, TN˂10 mg/L, and TP˂1 mg/L. While Monod kinetic parameters, k and Y, were determined to be lower than previous high-energy studies (1.9 mgCOD/mgVSS-d and 0.38 mgVSS/mgCOD, respectively), the photobioreactor performance were consistently maintained, indicating that energy cost associated with IR illumination can be reduced by up to 97%. To determine whether the treatment process could approach energy neutrality, subsequent anaerobic digestion experiments of the residual PPB biomass proved a potential for biogas recovery of up to 240 NmLCH/gVSS, and a moderate biomass biodegradability of 41%. As a result, the net energy consumption of the process was estimated at 0.5 kWh/m of treated municipal wastewater, considering an energy demand for illumination of 0.67 kWh/m and an energy recovery attributed to the anaerobic digestion of 0.17 kWh/m from the excess PPB biomass wasted from PAnMBR.

Planning methodology for anaerobic digestion systems on animal production facilities under uncertainty.Anaerobic digestion (AD) reduces GHG emission and facilitates renewable energy generation. The slow rate of adoption of this technology is often attributed to economic and technical considerations. Collaboration of two or more dairy farms into a centralized AD system can improve the process economics through economies of scale. However, uncertainties related to the process parameters and the scope/scale of the collaborative implementation impede its adoption. This study presents techno-economic optimization model as a design aid to determine ideal location, capacity, and participation level (cluster size) that maximize economic return on a cooperative digester. This study employs a probabilistic approach to overcome uncertainty regarding project parameters such as manure biomethane potential (BMP), project capital, and electricity sale price. Two case studies based on dairy production regions in Wisconsin were developed to test the model and demonstrate its capabilities. Herd sizes and spatial distribution in a given region were found to be critical factors in determining the viability of digestion projects in general, and collaborative digestion systems in particular. The number of simulation runs needed to capture the probability of profitable AD facility establishment was less than 1000 for both case studies assessed. Electricity sale price and biomethane potential of feedstock utilized were found to be the most restrictive to the feasibility of AD adoption. Changing the optimization objective function, to adopting maximization, favored the formation of collaborative AD facilities for both case studies evaluated.

Systematic Review on the Influence of Tissue Oxygenation on Gut Microbiota and Anastomotic Healing.Anastomotic leak rates have not improved over several decades despite improvements in surgical techniques and patient care. The gut microbiome has been implicated in the development of leaks. The exact mechanisms by which tissue oxygenation affects gut microbial composition and anastomotic healing physiology are unclear. Also, commonly used carbon dioxide (CO) is a known vasodilator that improves tissue oxygen tension. We performed a systematic review to determine the influence of hyperoxia, hypoxia, and hypercapnia on the gut microbiome and anastomotic healing.
A literature search was performed in MEDLINE, EMBASE, and COCHRANE to identify studies investigating the effects of hyperoxia, hypoxia, and hypercapnia on anastomotic healing and gut microbiota published between 1998 and 2018. Two reviewers screened the articles for eligibility and quality. Fifty-three articles underwent full text review, and a narrative synthesis was undertaken.
Hyperoxia is associated with better anastomotic healing, increased gastrointestinal oxygen tension, and may reduce gut anaerobes. Hypoxia is associated with poor healing and increased gut anaerobes. However, it is unclear if hypoxia is the most important predictor of anastomotic leaks. Low pressure CO pneumoperitoneum and mild systemic hypercapnia are both associated with increased gastrointestinal oxygen tension and may improve anastomotic healing. We found no studies which investigated the effect of hypercapnia on gut microbiota in the context of anastomotic healing.
Tissue oxygenation influences gut anastomotic healing, but little evidence exists to demonstrate the influence on the gut microbiome in the context of healing. Further studies are needed to determine if anastomotic microbiome changes with altered tissue oxygenation and if this affects healing and leak rates. If confirmed, altering tissue oxygenation through hyperoxia or hypercapnia could be feasible means of altering the microbiome such that anastomotic leak rates reduce.

Resource recovery and circular economy from organic solid waste using aerobic and anaerobic digestion technologies.With the inevitable rise in human population, resource recovery from waste stream is becoming important for a sustainable economy, conservation of the ecosystem as well as for reducing the dependence on the finite natural resources. In this regard, a bio-based circular economy considers organic wastes and residues as potential resources that can be utilized to supply chemicals, nutrients, and fuels needed by mankind. This review explored the role of aerobic and anaerobic digestion technologies for the advancement of a bio-based circular society. The developed routes within the anaerobic digestion domain, such as the production of biogas and other high-value chemicals (volatile fatty acids) were discussed. The potential to recover important nutrients, such as nitrogen through composting, was also addressed. An emphasis was made on the innovative models for improved economics and process performance, which include co-digestion of various organic solid wastes, recovery of multiple bio-products, and integrated bioprocesses.

Application of a mathematical model to predict simultaneous reactions in anaerobic plug-flow reactors as a primary treatment for constructed wetlands.Anaerobic digestion technologies offer a set of advantages when they are implemented as a primary treatment phase prior to the use of constructed wetland systems in low cost wastewater facilities. The aim of this study is to describe a model capable of reflecting the complex functioning of anaerobic lagoons, subject to continuous flux in the feed pipe, taking into account that physicochemical properties are subject to a concentration gradient and biochemical ones to simultaneous reactions which depend on each other. Based on both Stokes and advection-diffusion-reaction equations, the proposed model includes twenty-one variables to describe hydraulic, physical, biochemical and physicochemical characteristics that take place in different points of the system and at different moments of time. Drawn up by the International Water Association, the anaerobic digestion model ADM1 is included for the purpose of incorporating the anaerobic processes in the calculation. The finite element method was used to solve the nonlinear, second order partial differential equations of the model. The calculation strategy was designed using a flowchart. Using the open-source FreeFem++ software, a simulation of the mathematical model, in bi-dimensional space, is presented to demonstrate the dynamic behaviour of the proposed model. This yields essential information about the performance of the substrate, cells, and the biochemical reaction products in each of the points within the reactor. Simulations show the potential of this methodology to carry out studies of the behaviour of each of the variables contemplated in the model, as well as comparative studies of the various possible options. In addition, this methodology can be used to help modify the behaviour of the variables based on digester geometry and the boundary values the system is subject to. From the results, it can be concluded that the proposed methodology can be a useful tool for calculating and designing the aforementioned synergistic systems of anaerobic digester plug-flow reactors and constructed wetlands.

Enterococcus faecalis
Effect of heat-killed  EF-2001 on ethanol-induced acute gastric injury in mice: Protective effect of EF-2001 on acute gastric ulcer.is a facultative anaerobic gram-positive commensal bacterium common in the gastrointestinal tract of animals and humans. This study aimed to investigate the protective effects of heat-killed  EF-2001 (EF-2001) on acute gastric ulcer using a murine model of ethanol (EtOH)-induced acute gastric injury. EF-2001 (20, 40, and 80 mg/kg/day) was administered by oral gavage for 5 days before EtOH treatment (10 mL/kg body weight). EF-2001 effectively attenuated EtOH-induced gastric mucosal injury with reduced gastric mucosal ulcer and histological damage score. Pretreatment of EF-2001 markedly suppressed the phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs; ERK1/2, JNK, and p38MAPK). In addition, EF-2001 significantly inhibited phosphorylation of nuclear factor kappa B (NF-κB) and subsequently suppressed the upregulation of inducible nitric oxide synthase, cyclooxygenase-2, tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin 1 beta, and interleukin 6 in gastric tissues. Taken together, these results suggest that EF-2001 exerts a gastroprotective effect against acute gastric injury, and the underlying mechanism might be associated with the suppression of MAPKs and NF-κB signaling and consequent reduction of pro-inflammatory mediators or cytokines.

Iron oxide alleviates acids stress by facilitating syntrophic metabolism between Syntrophomonas and methanogens.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is a promising technology for food waste management, but frequently restricted with long lag phase as a consequent of acidification. Two laboratory experiments were conducted to investigate the effects of iron materials on food waste AD. Experiment 1 compared the effects of iron oxide (IO) and zero valent iron (ZVI) on AD performance. The results showed that both IO and ZVI could enhance methane (CH) generation, but IO showed better performance regarding the reduction of lag phase. The lag phase of the reactor supplemented with IO was 17.4% and 42.7% shorter than that of the reactor supplemented with ZVI and the control, respectively. Based on these results, experiment 2 was designed to examine the role of IO in alleviation of acid stress at high substrate to inoculum (SI) ratio. The results showed that supplemented IO into reactor could ensure a successful methanogenesis when operating at high SI ratio, while IO-free reactor was failed to generate CH although operating for 77 days. Supplementing IO into the reactor after 48 h of digestion could restore the CH generation, though its lag phase was 2.6 times of the reactor supplemented with IO at the beginning of the digestion. Microbial community structure analysis revealed that IO could simultaneously enrich Syntrophomonas and methanogens (i.e. Methanobacterium, Methanofollis and Methanosarcina), and might promote electron transfer between those two types of microbes, which were critical for achieving an effective methanogenesis.

How does synthetic musks affect methane production from the anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge?The increasing use of synthetic musks has led to a large amount of synthetic musks retaining in waste activated sludge (WAS) via wastewater treatment, thereby entering anaerobic digester. However, the potential effects of synthetic musks on WAS anaerobic digestion remain unknown. Herein, this study selected the dominant galaxolide (HHCB) in WAS as the typical synthetic musks and experimentally evaluated the long-term effects on WAS anaerobic digestion using continuous lab-scale anaerobic digesters as well as the mechanisms involved. The results demonstrated that the increased HHCB levels (i.e., 90, 150 and 200 mg/kg-dw) resulted in the decreased methane production, with the methane production at 200 mg/kg-dw being only 80.5 ± 0.1% of the control. Supporting the methane production data, volatile solids (VS) destruction decreased by 18.6 ± 0.9%, which increased 6.8% of volume waste sludge for transfer and disposal. Correspondingly, the microbial community was shifted in the direction against anaerobic digestion. By modeling based on biochemical methane potential tests and investigating the key stages involved in anaerobic digestion, it was found that although the HHCB showed little impacts on the solubilization, WAS hydrolysis-acidification steps was inhibited by HHCB with the decreased hydrolysis rate and methane production potential, thereby causing the deteriorated performance of WAS anaerobic digestion.

Effect of microplastic on anaerobic digestion of wasted activated sludge.Over 90% of microplastics that enter wastewater treatment plants end in the wasted activated sludge. The effect of microplastic abundance on the activated sludge anaerobic digestion has been rarely reported. This study investigated the methane production performance during anaerobic digestion with different abundance of microplastic doses (0, 1,000, 3,000, 6,000, 10,000, 30,000, 60,000, 100,000 and 200,000 polyester particle/kg activated sludge). The methane production was reduced to 88.53 ± 0.5%, 90.09 ± 1.2%, 89.95 ± 4.7%, 95.08 ± 0.5%, 90.29 ± 0.5%, 93.16 ± 0.8%, 92.92 ± 1.3%, and 92.72 ± 0.6% as compared with control after digestion for 59 days. The methane production of all conditions was fitted with the logarithm model (R > 0.95) and one-substrate model (R > 0.99). The predicted and actual methane production values of digestion for 59 days had high correlation in all conditions with R > 0.95. The analysis based on the biochemical methane potential test model indicated that the methane production potential (B) and hydrolysis coefficient (k) decreased at nearly all tested conditions. The reactor digestate with microplastics retained higher organic matter and nutrient concentration and had slightly lower dewaterability than the control. The inhibition of methane production potential could be attributed to the incomplete digestion with the existence of microplastics. The microbial community showed no significant difference with and without microplastics.

Interpretable machine learning for predicting biomethane production in industrial-scale anaerobic co-digestion.The objective of this study is to apply machine learning models to accurately predict daily biomethane production in an industrial-scale co-digestion facility. The methodology involved applying elasticnet, random forest, and extreme gradient boosting to input-output data from an industrial-scale anaerobic co-digestion (ACoD) facility. The models were used to predict biomethane for 1-day, 3-day, 5-day, 10-day, 20-day, 30-day, and 40-day time horizons. These models were fit on four years of operational data. The results showed that elastic net (a model with assumptions of linearity) was clearly outperformed by random forest and extreme gradient boosting (XGBoost), which had out-of-sample Rvalues ranging between 0.80 and 0.88, depending on the time horizon. In addition, feature importance and partial dependence analysis demonstrated the marginal and interaction effects on biomethane of selected biowaste inputs. For instance, food waste co-digested with percolate were shown to have strong positive interaction effects. One implication of this study is that XGBoost and random forest algorithms applied to industrial-scale ACoD data provide dependable prediction results and may be a useful complement for experimental and mechanistic/theoretical models of anaerobic digestion, especially where detailed substrate characterization is difficult. However, these models have limitations, and suggestions for deriving additional value from these methods are proposed.

Exercise induces tissue hypoxia and HIF-1α redistribution in the small intestine.Exercise induces blood flow redistribution among tissues, leading to splanchnic hypoperfusion. Intestinal epithelial cells are positioned between the anaerobic lumen and the highly metabolic lamina propria with an oxygen gradient. Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1α is pivotal in the transcriptional response to the oxygen flux.
In this study, the pimonidazole hydrochloride staining was applied to observe the tissue hypoxia in different organs, which might be affected by the blood flow redistribution. The HIF-1α luciferase reporter ROSA26 oxygen-dependent degradation domain (ODD)-Luc/ mouse model (ODD domain-Luc; female,  = 3-6/group) was used to detect the HIF-1α expression in the intestine. We used 3 swimming models: moderate exercise for 30 min, heavy-intensity exercise bearing 5% bodyweight for 1.5 h, and long-time exercise for 3 h.
We found that 1 session of swimming at different intensities could induce tissue hypoxia redistribution in the small intestine, colon, liver and kidney, but not in the spleen, heart, and skeletal muscle. Our data showed that exercise exacerbated the extent of physiological hypoxia in the small intestine. Next, using ODD-Luc mice, we found that moderate exercise increased the  HIF-1α level in the small intestine. The post-exercise HIF-1α level was gradually decreased in a time-dependent manner. Interestingly, the redistribution of tissue hypoxia and the increase of HIF-1α expression were not related to the exercise intensity and duration.
This study provided evidence that the small intestine is the primary target organ for exercise-induced tissue hypoxia and HIF-1α redistribution, suggesting that HIF-1α may be a potential target for the regulation of gastrointestinal functions after exercise.

Detection of early imbalances in semi-continuous anaerobic co-digestion process based on instantaneous biogas production rate.The aim of this study was to investigate the use of biogas production rate kinetics for the monitoring of anaerobic co-digestion. Recent extensive studies of degradation pathways showed that acetoclastic methanogenesis is not always the main pathway. Hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis and syntrophic acetate oxidation can also dominate, mostly for operating conditions with high concentrations of ammonia or volatile fatty acids … These conditions are also known to cause instability in the digester's operation especially in co-digestion due to substrate variability. Therefore, co-digestion experiments were conducted with several co-substrates using a continuously stirred 35-L tank reactor. Degradation pathways and their potential shifts were identified by monitoring variations in biogas production rate kinetics using a principal component analysis model. The shifts in the degradation pathways were used to monitor the process. These shift points were found to provide early warnings of instabilities in the anaerobic co-digestion process.

Anaerobic digestion of hazelnut (Corylus colurna) husks after alkaline pretreatment and determination of new important points in Logistic model curves.In this study, anaerobic digestion (AD) of hazelnut (Corylus colurna) husks (HH) was investigated by NaOH pretreatment at 1-6% w/w concentrations. The highest methane yield was 278.45 ± 7.85 mL/g volatile solid (VS), and this was obtained in a 4% NaOH pretreated reactor. In this reactor, the methane yield increased by 162.2% compared to that in the control. The concentrations of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) varied during the digestion process according to the different NaOH pretreatment results. The highest lignosellulosic solubilizations were obtained in a 6% NaOH pretreated reactor. Furthermore, in the second part of kinetic studies, it was defined critical points for cumulative methane yield (CMY) in the Logistic model (LM). These points were the absolute acceleration point (PAA), maximum acceleration point (PAM), inflection point (PI), maximum deceleration point (PDM), and asymptotic deceleration point (PDA). Using these points on the CMY curves, the AD process of HH was mathematically interpreted and explained.

LCA analysis of food waste co-digestion.The i-REXFO LIFE project designs an innovative business model with the objective of reducing significantly the amount of landfilled food waste. Given the availability of supermarket food waste in the Umbria region (Italy), the logistics is optimized using a Vehicle Routing Problem Solver, mass and energy balances of the biogas plant are partly calculated and partly measured from a real biogas plant. The data obtained from food waste transport and anaerobic co-digestion process are used as input for LCA analysis. The aim of the methodology is to assess the environmental and economic benefit of the substitution of energy crops (like corn silage) with food waste in anaerobic digestion. Two approaches are adopted: consequential LCA and attributional LCA. Only one impact category is taken into account: climate change. This decision has been taken to focus on two decision making criteria (economic feasibility and GHG emissions reduction). The results show that a reduction of 42% in the carbon footprint of the electricity produced from the biogas plant can be obtained by substituting about 9900 t of corn silage with 6600 t of food waste. Through the combined use of economic analysis and consequential LCA it has been possible to identify an optimized scenario in which: food waste produced from food industries is collected and used to produce energy in Expired Food Energy chains (EFE), while the food obtained from supermarkets is used to promote charity initiatives in actions aiming at the Reduction of Expired Food waste (REF).

Combining anaerobic digestion and hydrothermal liquefaction in the conversion of dairy waste into energy: A techno economic model for New York state.There is increasing global interest and policies being enacted to lower greenhouse gas emissions, especially from the agricultural sector. In the U.S. for example, states with large dairy operations may combine proven manure valorization technologies, such as anaerobic digestion and hydrothermal liquefaction. Sustainable manure treatment would increase the recovery of energy and other useful co-products, namely biogas, biocrude oil and hydro-char as well as lower the environmental impacts. In this study, the economic feasibility of implementing a centralized bioenergy system in New York State was investigated. The feasibility of this transformation depends on many factors, including capital costs, discount rates, and other financing arrangements, electricity selling prices, incentives and farm sizes and locations. For a large-scale implementation in New York State accounting for nearly 50% of the state's dairy farms, our model of a distributed, hybrid anaerobic/hydrothermal system was shown to treat 590 million liters of wet manure per day, producing 607 million kWh of electricity, 162,000 L of biocrude oil and 117,000 kg of hydro-char per day. Electricity selling price is a critical factor. Increasing the electricity selling price from wholesale ($0.06/kWh) to retail ($0.18/kWh) increased the net present value from $395 million to $1.5 billion (considering a 40-year project lifetime).

Methane production by co-digestion of poultry manure and lignocellulosic biomass: Kinetic and energy assessment.Six typical Brazilian lignocellulosic biomasses (rice straw, corn cob, peanut shell, sawdust, coffee husk and sugarcane bagasse) were evaluated for methane production by solid-state anaerobic co-digestion with poultry manure. The results showed the highest methane production was obtained with corn cob and poultry manure (126.02 Nm CH. ton residue) using a food to inoculum ratio of 0.5, which lowered volatile fatty acids accumulation. In this condition, the thermal energy production (1.73 MJ.kg live chicken) would be able to replace 53.2% of the energy with firewood in poultry farming. The high hemicellulose and low lignin content in corn cob seem to explain the biomethanation of such biomass, and this agrees with the microbial analysis which revealed the predominance of bacteria related to plant polysaccharides hydrolysis and carbohydrate conversion in the inoculum. The methane production was best modelled by Groot's multi-stage model, and the microbial adaptation to lignin might explain this.

Feeding control of anaerobic co-digestion of waste activated sludge and corn silage performed by rule-based PID control with ADM1.Anaerobic co-digestion (AcoD) of corn silage (CS) and waste activated sludge (WAS) co-substrates, compared with anaerobic digestion (AD) of mono-substrate WAS, was simulated under mesophilic conditions with the adapted IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1), and a rule-based PID control system for control of the AcoD of CS and WAS, through control of their ratios in the feed, was developed, implemented with the model as a test platform. Tests on AcoD of co-substrates were conducted at the COD mass-based feeding ratios of CS to WAS 1:2.5, 1:2.0 and 1:1.2. The maximal biogas production was 0.94 m/kgVS·d at the feeding ratio 1:1.2. The ADM1 was adapted, and the high-sensitivity kinetic parameters were calibrated and optimised using the data from the tests of steady state mono-digestion of WAS and AcoD of CS and WAS. The simulated data of biogas and methane production, methane content, VFA and pH agreed well with the test data. The rule-based PID control was developed with an additional expert system, in which the lower level controller operated the level of VFA/TIC and the upper level controller manipulated the setpoints of methane production. The feeding ratio of CS to WAS was used as a manipulated variable. With the constraint boundaries, the test on the control system showed that it could keep methane production stable to the setpoint and maximise methane production while resisting the disturbances to AcoD by adjusting the feeding ratios of CS to WAS.

Fly ash as stimulant for anaerobic digestion: effect over hydrolytic stage and methane generation rate.Thermoelectric fly ash was used as a micronutrient source for microorganisms in the anaerobic digestion process of thermally pretreated (1 hour, 120 °C) secondary sludge. The obtained results not only suggest that fly ash improves methane generation in the conversion of volatile fatty acids into methane, but also show a new observation, that the fly ash contributes in the particulate organic solubilization. The maximum methane production rate increased from 6.52 mL/L/d to 22.59 mL/L/d when fly ash was added at a dosage of 150 mg/L in biochemical methane potential tests compared with tests with no added ash. Additionally, the kinetic constants of the hydrolysis of particulate organic matter were obtained in both cases (with and without added ash) in batch reactors using a first-order kinetic model; in the case of no addition, the first-order kinetic parameter was 0.019 ± 0.002 d, while with ashes this value increased to 0.045 ± 0.000 d. Therefore, the addition of fly ash improves methane generation and hydrolytic kinetics in different orders of magnitude.

Self-optimizing attainable regions of the anaerobic treatment process: Modeling performance targets under kinetic uncertainty.Despite the advantage of model-based design, anaerobic digesters are seldom designed using biokinetic models due to lack of reliable kinetic coefficients and/or systematic approaches for incorporating kinetic models into digester design. This study presents a systematic framework, which couples practical identifiability, uncertainty quantification and attainable region (AR) concepts for defining process performance targets, especially when reliable kinetic coefficients are unavailable. Within the framework, we introduce the concept of self-optimizing ARs, which define performance targets that results in near optimal operation in spite of variations in kinetic coefficients. Using the case of modified Hill model, only 3 out of the 6 model parameters (unidentifiable set) are responsible for the model prediction uncertainty. The uncertainty bands (mean, 10th percentile and 90th percentile) on the model states has been computed using the Monte Carlo Simulation procedure and attainable regions for the different levels of uncertainty has been constructed and the boundaries interpreted into digester structures. The self-optimizing attainable regions have been defined as the intersection region of the attainable regions corresponding to the mean, 10th percentile and 90th percentile. Incorporating uncertainty significantly reduces performance targets of the process but increases self-optimality in defining performance targets. Unlike the attainable region, which represents the limits of achievability for defined kinetics, the self-optimizing attainable region represents the set of all possible states attainable by the system even in cases of kinetic uncertainty. In summary, the concept of self-optimizing ARs provides a systematic way of defining process performance targets and making economic decisions under conditions of uncertainty.

Evaluation of squeezing pretreatment for improving methane production from fresh banana pseudo-stems.Banana pseudo-stems (BPS) are an abundant and low-lignin-content lignocellulosic biomass for methane production. However, the high-water content in BPS increases the transport costs, and the resistant structure of BPS hinders methane production. In this study, squeezing of BPS as a pretreatment was evaluated for improving anaerobic digestion (AD). After 20-d digestion, methane production from squeezed BPS was 204.2 ± 6.2 mL/(g volatile solids (VS) of feedstock), which was 41.2% more than that from untreated BPS. This increase was mainly attributed to the improvement of physical properties (e.g. water absorbing capacity) and the change in the resistant structure of BPS after squeezing, which promoted good contact between microbes and substrate during AD. The measured methane production was described using a modified Gompertz model and the results showed that anaerobic process would take less time and occur faster when pretreated BPS was used as the substrate. The energy produced during AD of squeezed BPS, after deducting the energy used by the squeezer, resulted in an energy surplus of 26.2%.

Sulfate in anaerobic co-digester accelerates methane production from food waste and waste activated sludge.The presence of sulfate in food waste (FW) and waste activated sludge (WAS) threatens the anaerobic co-digestion for methane production. In this study, methane production from the anaerobic co-digestion of FW and WAS at sulfate concentrations of 50, 100, and 400 mg S/L was not affected, but instead deteriorated at 200 and 300 mg S/L. However, a model-based kinetic analysis reveals that sulfate can significantly promote the conversion of rapidly biodegradable substrates by up to 93%. From a point of thermodynamic view, the presence of sulfate can stimulate sulfate-reducing bacteria acting as acetogens to convert propionate to acetate, providing an alternative metabolic pathway for methanogenesis. In the anaerobic co-digestion, regulation of sulfate can be a potential strategy to improve the efficiency of methane production. However, more research is needed to optimize the sulfate concentration and substrate types in the anaerobic co-digester.

Influence of low voltage electric field stimulation on hydrogen generation from anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge.Low voltage electric field is an important stimulation condition for biochemical metabolic of microorganism. But few literatures were available related to the effect of low voltage electric field on hydrogen production from anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge (WAS). This study aims to explore such influencing thus carried a series experiments under 35 ± 1 °C and pH 7.0 ± 0.2. The experimental results showed that the hydrogen production increased from 28.1 to 32.5 mL/g VSS with electric field strengthening from 0 to 40 V/m. The mechanism explorations revealed that the yield of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) yield could reach 1.16-fold of control group when the highest-level electric field (40 V/m) forced in the anaerobic fermentation system with dextran as model substrate. Further analysis of relative activities of functional enzymes, such as NADH, acetate kinase, butyrate kinase and OAATC, showed that it was promoted by electric field stimulation as 2.09, 1.52, 1.28 and 1.16-fold of the control test, respectively. Meanwhile, the conductivity of fermentation liquor in presence of low voltage electric field stimulation increased 83% compared with the control group. This work verified the promotion of low voltage electric field stimulation on hydrogen production from anaerobic digestion of WAS and might provide a new sight for the green energy generation.

Prediction of anaerobic digestion performance and identification of critical operational parameters using machine learning algorithms.Machine learning has emerges as a novel method for model development and has potential to be used to predict and control the performance of anaerobic digesters. In this study, several machine learning algorithms were applied in regression and classification models on digestion performance to identify determinant operational parameters and predict methane production. In the regression models, k-nearest neighbors (KNN) algorithm demonstrates optimal prediction accuracy (root mean square error = 26.6, with the dataset range of 259.0-573.8), after narrowing prediction coverage by excluding extreme outliers from the validation set. In the classification models, logistic regression multiclass algorithm yields the best prediction accuracy of 0.73. Feature importance reveals that total carbon was the determinant operational parameter. These results demonstrate the great potential of using machine learning algorithms to predict anaerobic digestion performance.

Evaluation of biomethanization during co-digestion of thermally pretreated microalgae and waste activated sludge, and estimation of its kinetic parameters.The maximum methane yield that can be obtained from anaerobic co-digestion of microalgae and waste activated sludge (WAS) mixtures, after thermal pretreatment at 65 °C during 4 h, was investigated. Furthermore, the fitting of the experimental data by five kinetic models (first-order, second-order, modified Gompertz, Logistic, and two-substrate) was evaluated. Thermal pretreatment increased the methane yield of single microalgae and WAS digestion by ≈ 44 and by ≈ 52%, respectively. The results also showed that up to 60% of WAS can be co-digested with microalgae without impairing the methane yield, producing up to 338 mL g. Data from digestion of non-pretreated microalgae and WAS were well described by all kinetic models, but digestion of thermally pretreated microalgae, WAS, and their co-digestion mixtures, was best fitted by means of a two-substrate model, indicating that after pretreatment it is necessary to take into account the contribution of both rapidly and slowly biodegradable fractions.

Biotechnological utilization of animal gut microbiota for valorization of lignocellulosic biomass.The aim of this review is to give a summary of natural lignocellulose-degrading systems focusing mainly on animal digestive tracts of wood-feeding insects and ruminants in order to find effective strategies that can be applied to improve anaerobic digestion processes in engineered systems. Wood-feeding animals co-evolved with symbiotic microorganisms to digest lignocellulose-rich biomass in a very successful way. Considering the similarities between these animal gut systems and the lignocellulose-based biotechnological processes, the gut with its microbial consortium can be a perfect model for an advanced lignocellulose-degrading biorefinery. The physicochemical properties and structure of the gut may provide a scheme for the process design, and the microbial consortium may be applied as genetic resource for the up-scaled bioreactor communities. Manipulation of the gut microbiota is also discussed in relation to the management of the reactor communities.

Resource recovery assessment at a pulp mill wastewater treatment plant in Uruguay.Using a mathematical model, a resource recovery assessment was carried out at a pulp mill activated sludge wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) located in Uruguay. Through the evaluation of different scenarios, the potential production of methane from secondary sludge, with its inherent energy savings, and the recovery of phosphorus (P) as struvite were estimated. Considering the current WWTP configuration with a sludge retention time (SRT) of 32 days, and according to the model, which is a simplification of reality, the assessment indicates that the implementation of an anaerobic digester (AD) to treat the excess sludge can lead to a methane production of approximately 1736 m CH d, being a promising alternative to increase the WWTP treatment performance. Furthermore, the model predictions suggest that by shortening the SRT from 32 to 5 days, the methane production could increase by up to 5568 m CH d. If the methane produced is used to generate electrical energy to operate the WWTP, energy savings of about 88% can be achieved. Regarding the potential recovery of P as struvite, the addition of a struvite reactor could be an efficient option to recover approximately 1611 mg L of struvite (corresponding to a load of about 433 kg d). By optimizing the process performance, these findings highlight the potential recovery of resources in pulp mill WWTP, while complying with stringent effluent discharge standards. In addition, further research activities such as pilot-test or detailed laboratory studies may be needed to validate the previous recommendations for industrial scale application.

Does glucose affect the de-esterification of methyl ferulate by Lactobacillus buchneri?Silage, the fermented product from anaerobic storage of forage crops with high water contents (50%-70%), is normally used as animal feed but also for the production of biofuels and value-added products. To improve the utilization of plant fibers during ensiling, previous attempts have aimed at breaking linkages between lignin and hemicellulose by use of Lactobacillus buchneri LN 4017 (ATCC PTA-6138), a feruloyl esterase (FAE)-producing strain, but results have been inconsistent. Normally, there are sufficient amounts of readily available substrates for bacterial growth in silage. We thus hypothesized that the inconsistent effect of L. buchneri LN 4017 on the digestibility of silage fibers is due to the catabolic repression of FAE activity by substrates present in silage (e.g., glucose). To test this hypothesis, we analyzed the effect of glucose on the de-esterification of methyl ferulate (MF), a model substrate used for FAE activity assays. At three glucose:MF ratios (0:1, 1:1, and 13:1), the bacteria continued hydrolyzing MF with increasing glucose:MF ratios, indicating that the de-esterification reaction was not repressed by glucose. We therefore conclude that the de-esterification activity of L. buchneri LN 4017 is not repressed by silage substrates during ensiling.

Evaluation of recycled paper mill effluent digestion in a modified anaerobic hybrid baffled (MAHB) reactor: reactor performance & kinetic studies.Recycled paper mill effluent (RPME) consists of various organic and inorganic compounds. In this study, modified anaerobic hybrid baffled (MAHB) bioreactor has been successfully used to anaerobically digest RPME. The anaerobic digestion was investigated in relation to methane production rate, lignin removal, and chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal, with respect to organic loading rate (OLR) and hydraulic retention time (HRT). The analysis using kinetic study was carried out under mesophilic conditions (37 ± 2 °C) and influent COD concentrations (1000-4000 mg L), to prove its practicability towards RPME treatment. First-order kinetic model was used to clarify the behavior of RPME anaerobic digestion under different OLRs (0.14-4.00 g COD L d) and HRT (1-7 d). The result shows that the highest COD removal efficiency and methane production rate were recorded to be 98.07% and 2.2223 L CH d, respectively. This result was further validated by evaluating the biokinetic coefficients (reaction rate constant () and maximum biogas production ()), which gave values of  = 0.57 d and  = 0.331 L d. This kinetic data concludes that MAHB presented satisfactory performance towards COD removal with relatively high methane production, which can be further utilized as on-site energy supply.

Preliminary evaluation of the anaerobic biodegradability of three biobased materials used for the production of disposable plastics.Biodegradable plastics have been introduced to the market to substitute "traditional", non-biodegradable, petro-based plastics to alleviate plastic pollution. Biochemical methane potential tests were carried out on compostable bags made of MaterBi®, biodegradable bottle wine corks and cellulosic plates to examine the anaerobic biodegradability of those materials. The impact of four factors: type of pretreatment (predigestion, mechanical, alkaline, predigestion and alkaline), digestion duration, type of inoculum and temperature were statistically evaluated through regression modeling. Anaerobic tests on compostable and polyethylene bags (control) were carried out in mesophilic (35 °C) and thermophilic (55 °C) conditions, while tests on bottle wine corks and cellulosic plates were carried out in mesophilic conditions only. After 15 days of digestion, a dry mass reduction of 22.8 ± 6.2 % and 27.6 ± 14.0 % for mesophilic and thermophilic tests respectively was recorded for MaterBi®. Chemical pretreatment with NaOH led to a mass reduction of 78.2 ± 7.2 % and was the only statistically significant factor to affect both methane yields and dry mass loss. A higher digestion temperature led to an increased mass loss without a concurrent increase in methane production. The cellulosic plates were completely degraded (99.9 ± 0.03 % mass reduction), while the wine bottle corks weight did not change.

Indigo Naturalis Ameliorates Dextran Sulfate Sodium-Induced Colitis in Mice by Modulating the Intestinal Microbiota Community.Indigo naturalis (IN) is a traditional Chinese medicine, named Qing-Dai, which is extracted from indigo plants and has been used to treat patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) in China and Japan. Though there are notable effects of IN on colitis, the mechanisms remain elusive. Regarding the significance of alterations of intestinal flora related to IBD and the poor water solubility of the blue IN powder, we predicted that the protective action of IN on colitis may occur through modifying gut microbiota. To investigate the relationships of IN, colitis, and gut microbiomes, a dextran sulfate sodium (DSS)-induced mice colitis model was tested to explore the protective effects of IN on macroscopic colitis symptoms, the histopathological structure, inflammation cytokines, and gut microbiota, and their potential functions. Sulfasalazine (SASP) was used as the positive control. Firstly, because it was a mixture, the main chemical compositions of indigo and indirubin in IN were detected by ultra-performance liquid chromatography (UPLC). The clinical activity score (CAS), hematoxylin and eosin (H&E) staining results, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) results in this study showed that IN greatly improved the health conditions of the tested colitis mice, ameliorated the histopathological structure of the colon tissue, down-regulated pro-inflammatory cytokines, and up-regulated anti-inflammatory cytokines. The results of 16S rDNA sequences analysis with the Illumina MiSeq platform showed that IN could modulate the balance of gut microbiota, especially by down-regulating the relative quantity of  and up-regulating the relative quantity of . The therapeutic effect of IN may be closely related to the anaerobic gram-positive bacteria of  and  The inferred metagenomes from 16S data using PICRUSt demonstrated that decreased metabolic genes, such as through biosynthesis of siderophore group nonribosomal peptides, non-homologous end-joining, and glycosphingolipid biosynthesis of lacto and neolacto series, may maintain microbiota homeostasis during inflammation from IN treatment in DSS-induced colitis.

Effects of low-dosage ozone pre-treatment on the anaerobic digestion of secondary and mixed sludge.The present study investigated the effects of ozonation pre-treatment at low-ozone dosage (below 100 mgO/gTS) with respect to previous studies, on the anaerobic digestion of waste-activated sludge alone and a mixture of activated sludge and primary sludge. Methane production and volatile suspended solids reduction efficiency were determined for different specific ozone dosages and compared with the values obtained in the absence of pre-treatment. Among the dosages tested in the study (from 4.8 to 73.2 mgO/gTS for mixed sludge and from 3.5 to 53.6 mgO/gTS for waste-activated sludge), the best results were obtained at the lowest ones: 4.8 and 3.5 mgO/gTS for mixed sludge and waste-activated sludge, respectively. Indeed, at this dosage, an additional methane production of about 6% and 30% was achieved for mixed and waste-activated sludge, respectively; furthermore, the maximum CH production rate increased of about 21% and 33% for mixed and waste-activated sludge, respectively. With respect to the Gompertz model, the modified logistic model provided the best agreement to the experimental data of the specific methane yield production. The present study demonstrated the importance of investigating the application of low dosages when ozonation is being evaluated as a pre-treatment to enhance anaerobic digestion performance.

Gut Antibody Deficiency in a Mouse Model of CVID Results in Spontaneous Development of a Gluten-Sensitive Enteropathy.Primary immunodeficiencies are heritable disorders of immune function. CD19 is a B cell co-receptor important for B cell development, and CD19 deficiency is a known genetic risk factor for a rare form of primary immunodeficiency known as "common variable immunodeficiency" (CVID); an antibody deficiency resulting in low levels of serum IgG and IgA. Enteropathies are commonly observed in CVID patients but the underlying reason for this is undefined. Here, we utilize CD19 mice as a model of CVID to test the hypothesis that antibody deficiency negatively impacts gut physiology under steady-state conditions. As anticipated, immune phenotyping experiments demonstrate that CD19 mice develop a severe B cell deficiency in gut-associated lymphoid tissues that result in significant reductions to antibody concentrations in the gut lumen. Antibody deficiency was associated with defective anti-commensal IgA responses and the outgrowth of anaerobic bacteria in the gut. Expansion of anaerobic bacteria coincides with the development of a chronic inflammatory condition in the gut of CD19 mice that results in an intestinal malabsorption characterized by defects in lipid metabolism and transport. Administration of the antibiotic metronidazole to target anaerobic members of the microbiota rescues mice from disease indicating that intestinal malabsorption is a microbiota-dependent phenomenon. Finally, intestinal malabsorption in CD19 mice is a gluten-sensitive enteropathy as exposure to a gluten-free diet also significantly reduces disease severity in CD19 mice. Collectively, these results support an effect of antibody deficiency on steady-state gut physiology that compliment emerging data from human studies linking IgA deficiency with non-infectious complications associated with CVID. They also demonstrate that CD19 mice are a useful model for studying the role of B cell deficiency and gut dysbiosis on gluten-sensitive enteropathies; a rapidly emerging group of diseases in humans with an unknown etiology.

Management and design of biogas digesters: A non-calibrated heat transfer model.A thermal balance modeling framework is developed, based on heat transfer-resistance networks. The heat transfer model accounts for effects of digester- design, location and operation, including effects of solar irradiance, external heating and ambient climate. We demonstrate extendibility of the framework by using the model in dynamic simulations of substrate temperature for digesters comprising two very different designs. Digester designs modeled include fixed-dome, buried, uninsulated and unheated household digesters in Hanoi, Vietnam, and an industrial-scale anaerobic digester located at a wastewater treatment plant in Esbjerg, Denmark. The modeled temperature profiles were evaluated against measured substrate temperatures over long periods, from 7 months and up. For the two Hanoi digesters, root-mean-square-error were 1.43 °C and 0.92 °C, with Nash-Sutcliffe model efficiency coefficients (NS-C) of 0.87 and 0.93 respectively. For the industrial digester in Esbjerg root-mean-square-error was 0.48 °C with an NS-C of 0.94. The model was not calibrated prior simulation, suggesting good predictive performance.

Attainable regions and fuzzy multi-criteria decisions: Modeling a novel configuration of methane bioreactor using experimental limits of operation.This study sets out to develop an approach that couples attainable regions and fuzzy multicriteria decision methods for modeling optimal configurations of multistage digesters without using a kinetic model of the process. The approach is based on geometric analysis of methane curves as their shapes contain valuable insight into substrate biodegradability characteristics during anaerobic digestion. With the case study of abattoir waste, the results indicate that the optimal batch operation policy involves four anaerobic sequencing batch reactors operated in series with fresh feed being added at the second and the four stages (fed-batch systems). For continuous mode operation, the optimal configuration involves a continuous stirred tank digester with bypass from feed followed by an anaerobic baffled digester, which has been used to obtain a novel prototype. The methodological framework presented in this study can be adopted to enhance design of multistage anaerobic digesters especially when reliable kinetic models are unavailable.

Rheology improvement in an osmotic membrane bioreactor for waste sludge anaerobic digestion and the implication on agitation energy consumption.Sludge rheology is an essential factor for anaerobic digestion (AD) processes to control the agitation energy consumption. In this study, the sludge rheology was characterized for an osmotic membrane bioreactor and a conventional sludge anaerobic digestion reactor as the solid content being increased from 3.5-3.7% to 7.5-7.7%. The flow curves were fitted using different rheological models and the mechanism was discussed. The sludge from the osmotic membrane bioreactor exhibited obviously better rheological properties than that of the conventional reactor at a solid content of 7.5-7.7%. Larger particles induced by less negative zeta potential and higher extracellular polymeric substances, together with the higher conductivity resulted by reverse salt flux in the osmotic membrane bioreactor, improved the sludge rheology due to reduced interactions between particles. As a result, the agitation energy consumption of the osmotic membrane bioreactor can save up to 34-39% compared with the conventional one at total solid content of 7.5-7.7%.

Biogas production estimation using data-driven approaches for cold region municipal wastewater anaerobic digestion.The objective of this study was to estimate biogas (including methane, carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulphide) production rates from the anaerobic digesters at the Saskatoon Wastewater Treatment Plant (SWTP), Saskatchewan, Canada. Average daily ambient temperatures typically fluctuate between -40 °C and 30 °C over the year making the management of the SWTP processes challenging. Operating parameters were taken from 2014 to 2016 including volatile fatty acids (VFAs), total solids, fixed solids, volatile solids, pH, and inflow rate. The input parameters were processed using two methods including a correlation test and principal component analysis (PCA) to determine highly correlated variables prior to use in models. The two models used to estimate biogas production rates are a multi-layered perceptron feed forward artificial neural network (ANN) and an adaptive network-based fuzzy inference system (ANFIS) with grid partition (GP), subtractive clustering (SC) and fuzzy c-means clustering (FCMC). The models using PCA processed variables had reasonable performances with shorter model processing times, while reducing model input data. Among various structures of ANN and ANFIS models for estimation of biogas generation, the ANFIS-FCMC results had better agreement with the observed data. Its average approximation of emission rates of CH, CO and HS from the wastewater digesters were 3,086, 6,351, and 41.5 g/min, respectively. Our group is assessing similar estimation methodology for the remaining SWTP wastewater treatment processes that are more highly impacted by the seasonal temperature variations including primary and secondary treatment processes.

Physical exercise stimulates salivary secretion of cystatins.Physical exercise is known to activate the sympathetic nervous system, which influences the production of saliva from salivary glands. Our examination of saliva collected from highly trained athletes before and after a number of physical competititions showed an increase in the secretion of S-type cystatins and cystatin C as a subacute response to aerobic and anaerobic exercise. The elevation in salivary cystatins was transient and the recovery time course differed from that of amylase and other salivary proteins. An in vitro assay was developed based on a cell line from a human submandibular gland (HSG) that differentiated into acinus-like structures. Treatments with the β-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol caused a shift in the intracellular distribution of S-type cystatins and cystatin C, promoting their accumulation at the outer regions of the acinus prior to release and suggesting the activation of a directional transport involving co-migration of both molecules. In another treatment using non-differentiated HSG cells, it was evident that both expression and secretion of cystatin C increased upon addition of the β-adrenergic agonist, and these effects were essentially eliminated by the antagonist propranolol. The HSG cell line appears to have potential as a model for exploring the mechanism of cystatin secretion, particularly the S-type cystatins that originate primarily in the submandibular glands.

Control schemes for a complex biorefinery plant for bioenergy and biobased products.This work proposes innovative feedback control schemes for a complex biorefinery plant which contains two continuous bioreactors: an anaerobic digester and a photobioreactor. The anaerobic digester is used to decompose organic matter inside a wastewater treatment process, the most useful final product being biogas/methane. The photobioreactor is used for a microalgae photosynthetic growth process where some components with added value are produced, and bio-mitigation of the carbon dioxide emissions is achieved. By using realistic models of the anaerobic digester and of the photobioreactor, novel adaptive and robust control schemes are designed. These proposed structures contain linearizing controllers, state observers and parameter estimators for the bioprocess unknown kinetics. The control designs are validated via numerical simulations that consider several realistic restrictions and disturbances which act on the process: unavailability of some biological variables, unknown and time-varying reaction kinetics, uncertain and time-varying influent flow rates, noisy measurements.

Modelling hydrolysis: Simultaneous versus sequential biodegradation of the hydrolysable fractions.Hydrolysis is considered the limiting step during solid waste anaerobic digestion (including co-digestion of sludge and biosolids). Mechanisms of hydrolysis are mechanistically not well understood with detrimental impact on model predictive capability. The common approach to multiple substrates is to consider simultaneous degradation of the substrates. This may not have the capacity to separate the different kinetics. Sequential degradation of substrates is theoretically supported by microbial capacity and the composite nature of substrates (bioaccessibility concept). However, this has not been experimentally assessed. Sequential chemical fractionation has been successfully used to define inputs for an anaerobic digestion model. In this paper, sequential extractions of organic substrates were evaluated in order to compare both models. By removing each fraction (from the most accessible to the least accessible fraction) from three different substrates, anaerobic incubation tests showed that for physically structured substrates, such as activated sludge and wheat straw, sequential approach could better describe experimental results, while this was less important for homogeneous materials such as pulped fruit. Following this, anaerobic incubation tests were performed on five substrates. Cumulative methane production was modelled by the simultaneous and sequential approaches. Results showed that the sequential model could fit the experimental data for all the substrates whereas simultaneous model did not work for some substrates.

2
Prospects for biogas production and HS control from the anaerobic digestion of cattle manure: The influence of microscale waste iron powder and iron oxide nanoparticles.Improving the quality and quantity of biogas usually requires pre-treatment to maximize methane yields and/or post-treatment to remove HS, which involves considerable energy consumption and higher costs. Therefore, this study proposes a cost-effective method for the enhanced anaerobic digestion (AD) of dairy manure (DM) without pre/post-treatment by directly adding waste iron powder (WIP) and iron oxide nanoparticles (INPs) to batch digesters. The results showed that the addition of iron in the form of microscale WIP (generated from the laser cutting of iron and steel) at concentrations of 100 mg/L, 500 mg/L, and 1000 mg/L improved methane yields by 36.99%, 39.36%, and 56.89%, respectively. In comparison, the equivalent dosages of INPs improved yields by 19.74%, 18.14%, and 21.11%, respectively. Additionally, the highest WIP dose (1000 mg/L) achieved the maximum improvement in the rate of hydrolysis (k), which was 1.25 times higher than in control reactions, and a maximum biomethane production rate (R) of 0.045 L/gVS/d according to kinetic analysis models (i.e., first-order and the Gompertz kinetic models). The rate of HS production was also significantly reduced (by 45.20%, 58.16%, and 77.24%) using the three WIP concentrations in comparison with INPs (which achieved reductions of 33.59%, 46.30%, and 53.52%, respectively). Therefore, the direct mixing of WIP with cattle manure is proposed as a practical and economical means of addressing complex and high-cost pre- and post-treatments that are otherwise required in the digestion process.

The effects of thiosulfinates on methane production from anaerobic co-digestion of waste activated sludge and food waste and mitigate method.Thiosulfinates, a natural antibiotic, existed in all parts of Allium, therefore might be accumulated in large amounts in food waste (FW). FW was often added into waste activated sludge (WAS) anaerobic digestion process as a kind of supplement for nutrition balance. However, the impact of thiosulfinates on methane production and the possible approach to mitigate its inhibition on the co-digestion process could be available in few literatures. This work was carried out in a series of batch experiment at pH 7.0 ± 0.2 and 35 ± 1.0 ℃ to promote the further understanding of this process. The experimental results showed that the methane accumulation decreased from 270.6 ± 13.4 to 16.7 ± 7.0 mL/g VSS (volatile suspended solids) when the initial concentration of thiosulfinates increased from 0 to 2.5 μg/g VSS. The activities of functional enzymes (F and CoM) were inhibited by 99.06% and 99.82% compared with control group when reactor contained 2.5 μg/g VSS thiosulfinates. Furthermore, different temperature, pH, and combination pretreat were applied to impair the inhibition of thiosulfinate. Compared with no pretreatment group, methane yield was increased by 2.26, 32.18 and 42.2-fold, respectively which group was under pretreatment method of heat (100 ℃), alkali (pH 9) and combination.

Reducing Cost and Environmental Impact of Wastewater Treatment with Denitrifying Methanotrophs, Anammox, and Mainstream Anaerobic Treatment.In water resource recovery facilities, sidestream biological nitrogen removal via anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) is more energy and cost efficient than conventional nitrification-denitrification. However, under mainstream conditions, nitrite oxidizing bacteria (NOB) out-select anammox bacteria for nitrite produced by ammonium oxidizing bacteria (AOB). Therefore, nitrite production is the bottleneck in mainstream anammox nitrogen removal. Nitrate-dependent denitrifying anaerobic methane oxidizing archaea (n-damo) oxidize methane and reduce nitrate to nitrite. The nitrite supply challenge in mainstream anammox implementation could be solved with a microbial community of AOB, NOB, n-damo, and anammox with methane from anaerobic sludge digestion or a mainstream anaerobic membrane bioreactor (AnMBR). The cost and environmental impact of traditional nitrification/dentrification relative to AOB/anammox and AOB/anammox/n-damo systems, with and without an AnMBR, were compared with a stoichiometric model. AnMBR implementation reduced costs and emission rates at moderate to high nutrient loading by lowering aeration and sludge handling demands while increasing methane available for cogeneration. AnMBR/AOB/anammox systems reduced cost and GHG emission by up to $0.303/d/m and 1.72 kg equiv. CO/d/m, respectively, while AnMBR/AOB/anammox/n-damo systems saw a similar reduction of at least $0.300/d/m and 1.65 kg equiv. CO/d/m in addition to alleviating the necessity to stop nitrification at nitrate, allowing easier aeration control.

Biomethane production by thermophilic co-digestion of sugarcane vinasse and whey in an AnSBBR: Effects of composition, organic load, feed strategy and temperature.This work investigated the application of a thermophilic (55 °C) anaerobic reactor with immobilized biomass, mechanically stirred and operated in sequential batch and fed batch (AnSBBR) for environmental compliance and methane production by co-digesting cheese whey (W) and sugarcane vinasse (V). The assays were performed in four steps. In the first step the composition of 75%W:25%V (on a COD basis) was determined to be the most adequate for the anaerobic process. In the second step the applied volumetric organic load (AVOL) was increased and in the third step the feed strategy was modified achieving best results at AVOL of 25 gCOD.m.d, in which the removed organic matter efficiency was 72%, the molar productivity was 278 molCH.m.d and methane yield was 15.3 mmolCH.gCOD. In the fourth step the temperature was modified to 50 °C and 45 °C, achieving worse results. From the kinetic model adjusted to experimental data it was identified that the acetoclastic route was predominant in methane generation. The estimated energy recovered by co-digesting cheese whey and sugarcane vinasse using industrial information was 2.2 × 10 MW h per month, equivalent (in Brazil) to the electricity consumption of about 135 × 10 inhabitants or monthly savings of US$ 1,653,000 replacing the diesel oil consumed in the industry.

Assessing the stability of anaerobic co-digestion in the context of a WWTP with thermal pre-treatment of sewage sludge. Case study in Chile.In this study, beverage wastewater (BW) and extended aeration sewage sludge were assessed as co-substrates with both mixed sludge and thermally hydrolyzed sludge as substrates in an anaerobic codigestion (AcoD) process. The methodology is an integrated methodology that comprises a batch test (BMP) and semicontinuous reactor along with microbial diversity analysis. The results showed that in batch conditions, neither significant synergistic nor antagonistic effects were observed on the maximum potential (P) due to the cosubstrates presence. However, synergistic effects on a kinetic parameter (R) were observed when BW was used as cosubstrate. Process instability was observed in semi-continuous mode with cosubstrate BW, which was not predicted by the BMP test. As demonstrated in this study, the BMP approach is also not suitable for predicting continuous performance in real systems; however, it can be used to screen an array of substrates. In semi-continuous mode, one can expect to reach values between 50 and 60% of the biogas potential and 20-40% of the maximum production rate achieved in batch tests. The agreement between batch and semi-continuous results is also dependent on the type of inoculum used. The microbial diversity of the system was more influenced by the reactor stability than the presence of cosubstrates. To predict the performance (and stability) of real anaerobic digesters, dynamic models should be employed.

Organic matter disappearance and production of short- and branched-chain fatty acids from selected fiber sources used in pet foods by a canine in vitro fermentation model1.Dietary fibers can influence a dog's overall health, but high concentrations of soluble dietary fibers can cause soft stools. An in vitro model could be useful to predict the rate fibers are fermented once they reach the colon. Pet food companies are constantly searching for new ingredients to differentiate their products from competitors. Miscanthus grass (MG), pea fiber (PF), and sorghum bran (SB) are novel fiber sources that could be alternatives to standards like cellulose (CE) and beet pulp (BP). The objectives of the study were to determine the effects of fiber source on organic matter disappearance (OMD), estimated organic matter disappearance (EOMD), and fermentation end-product concentrations using an in vitro fermentation procedure and dog fecal inoculum. Total dietary fiber (TDF) residues from MG, CE, BP, PF, and SB were fermented in vitro with buffered dog feces. Fecal samples were collected and maintained in anaerobic conditions until the dilution and inoculation. Test tubes containing the fibrous substrates were incubated for 4, 8, and 12 h at 39 °C. Short-chain fatty acids (SCFA), branched-chain fatty acids (BCFA), OMD, and EOMD were determined for each fiber source and time point. Beet pulp had the highest OMD, EOMD, and SCFA production of all tested fiber sources (38.6% OMD, 26.2% EOMD, 2.72 mmol SCFA/g of substrate). Sorghum bran led to greater concentrations of BCFA (59.86 µmol/g of substrate) and intermediate OMD and EOMD compared to the other tested fibers. Cellulose and MG were poorly fermented with the lowest OMD, EOMD, SCFA, and BCFA compared to other fibers. In conclusion, MG could be used as an insoluble minimally fermentable replacement fiber for CE in dog foods.

Adaptive identification of anaerobic digestion process for biogas production management systems.To achieve the goals of sustainable development, supplies of renewable energy must be increased and methods of stable production developed. This study focused on the anaerobic digestion process using biomass as a raw material, which represents a renewable energy resource which is robust to environmental change and can be adjusted to suit supply and demand. A state-space model of the process was built in this study, consisting of two differential equations and one algebraic equation. The parameters included in the model are dependent on the operating conditions of the process. Automatic estimation of parameters from the input and output data of the process enables easy use of the model under any operating conditions. An adaptive-identifier control system was introduced as the parameter-estimation system, which made it possible to obtain the least squares estimate of parameters. When accumulated biogas generation per day was predicted using the model, goodness-of-fit analysis indicated an accuracy of over 80% in all cases, validating the model and estimated parameters. Future tasks will involve implementation of model predictive control into anaerobic digestion processes with the model and parameter-estimation system developed in this study.

Intermittent micro-aeration: New strategy to control volatile fatty acid accumulation in high organic loading anaerobic digestion.This study developed an intermittent oxidation-reduction potential (ORP)-controlled micro-aeration system for high solids anaerobic digestion (AD) of lignocellulosic biomass without volatile fatty acids (VFA) accumulation at high organic loading rate (OLR). Traditional AD of Napier grass, a model lignocellulosic biomass, at an OLR of 5 g volatile solids (VS)/L/day resulted in an accumulation of total VFA concentration up to 9.2 g/L as acetic acid (HAc) equivalent, causing rapid drops in pH and methane yield, and driving the digester to the verge of failure. Once intermittent (every 24 h) ORP-controlled micro-aeration (at ORP of -470 mV) was initiated, the total VFA concentration rapidly decreased to 3.0 g HAc/L and the methane yield improved, resulting in stable digester performance without the need for alkalinity supplementation or OLR reduction. By combining reactor performance results, mass balance analyses, microbial community characterization data, and a bioenergetic evaluation, this study suggested that rapid VFA conversion and CH production were carried out by facultative anaerobes and hydrogenotrophic methanogens under micro-aerobic conditions. This novel operating approach can be applied as an effective control strategy for high OLR AD processes especially in the event of VFA accumulation.

Citrobacter rodentium-host-microbiota interactions: immunity, bioenergetics and metabolism.Citrobacter rodentium is an extracellular enteric mouse-specific pathogen used to model infections with human pathogenic Escherichia coli and inflammatory bowel disease. C. rodentium injects type III secretion system effectors into intestinal epithelial cells (IECs) to target inflammatory, metabolic and cell survival pathways and establish infection. While the host responds to infection by activating innate and adaptive immune signalling, required for clearance, the IECs respond by rapidly shifting bioenergetics to aerobic glycolysis, which leads to oxygenation of the epithelium, an instant expansion of mucosal-associated commensal Enterobacteriaceae and a decline of obligate anaerobes. Moreover, infected IECs reprogramme intracellular metabolic pathways, characterized by simultaneous activation of cholesterol biogenesis, import and efflux, leading to increased serum and faecal cholesterol levels. In this Review we summarize recent advances highlighting the intimate relationship between C. rodentium pathogenesis, metabolism and the gut microbiota.

Integration of bioenergetics in the ADM1 and its impact on model predictions.In this work, the integration of dynamic bioenergetic calculations in the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) is presented. The impact of bioenergetics on kinetics was addressed via two different approaches: a thermodynamic-based inhibition function and variable microbial growth yields based on dynamic Gibbs free energy calculations. The dynamic bioenergetic calculations indicate that the standard ADM1 predicts positive reaction rates under thermodynamically unfeasible conditions. The dissolved hydrogen inhibition approach used in ADM1 is, however, deemed as adequate, offering the trade-off of not requiring dynamic bioenergetics computation despite the need of hydrogen inhibition parameters. Simulations of the model with bioenergetics showed the low amount of energy available in butyrate and propionate oxidation, suggesting that microbial growth on these substrates must be very limited or occur via alternative mechanisms rather than dissolved hydrogen.

Elevated biogas production from the anaerobic co-digestion of farmhouse waste: Insight into the process performance and kinetics.The biodegradable portion of solid waste generated in farmhouses can be treated for energy recovery with small portable biogas plants. This action can be done across the Netherlands and all around the planet. This study aims to appraise the performance of anaerobic digestion of different wastes (cow manure, food waste and garden waste) obtained from a regional farmhouse. Batch reactors were established under mesophilic conditions in order to investigate the impact of ternary mixtures on the anaerobic digestion process performance. Different mixing ratios were set in the batch tests. The upshots from the experiments connoted that ternary digestion with cow manure:food waste:garden waste mixing ratio of 40:50:10 yielded higher biogas amount. The kinetics' results showed quite good congruence with the experimental study. The results from the kinetic analysis appeared to be in line with the experimental one.

An in vitro intestinal platform with a self-sustaining oxygen gradient to study the human gut/microbiome interface.An oxygen gradient formed along the length of colonic crypts supports stem-cell proliferation at the normoxic crypt base while supporting obligate anaerobe growth in the anoxic colonic lumen. Primary human colonic epithelial cells derived from human gastrointestinal stem cells were cultured within a device possessing materials of tailored oxygen permeability to produce an oxygen-depleted luminal (0.8% ± 0.1% O) and oxygen-rich basal (11.1% ± 0.5% O) compartment. This oxygen difference created a stable oxygen gradient across the colonic epithelial cells which remained viable and properly polarized. Facultative and obligate anaerobes Lactobacillus rhamnosus, Bifidobacterium adolescentis, and Clostridium difficile grew readily within the luminal compartment. When formed along the length of an in vitro crypt, the oxygen gradient facilitated cell compartmentalization within the crypt by enhancing confinement of the proliferative cells to the crypt base. This platform provides a simple system to create a physiological oxygen gradient across an intestinal mimic while simultaneously supporting anaerobe co-culture.

Interaction Between Cobalt Ferrite Nanoparticles and Aspergillus niger Spores.The immobilization of microorganisms has been reported as an alternative to improve the efficiency of processes such as fermentation, anaerobic digestion, bioadsorption, and many others. Since the kinetics of bioprocesses are governed by the adsorbent/adsorbate interaction, it is important to know the mechanisms of interaction between biological materials and supports. This could help to define optimal operating conditions. In this research, the fungus that produces the cellulases, was selected, and the characterization of the interaction between fungal spores and cobalt ferrite magnetic nanoparticles, was performed. In order to select a fungal strain produces cellulase enzymes, a qualitative Congo Red test was carried out with a culture medium rich in carboxymethylcellulose. From five strains, Aspergillus niger was selected. Chitosan coated cobalt ferrite magnetic nanoparticles (CoMNP-C) were synthesized by single-step co-precipitation. The nano-size of CoMNP-C was demonstrated by XRD. The presence of a high content of amino groups (0.144 mM g) was observed, that could have an important role in the interaction between nanoparticles and spores. Adsorption kinetic studies were carried out. The pseudo-equilibrium time was estimated as 90 min. Spores adsorption isotherm was obtained with 3.45 mg of synthesized material at 30 °C. It was found that the adsorption of spores may be described by both models (Langmuir and Freundlich), suggesting a homogeneous surface of the nanoparticles and a multilayer adsorption phenomenon. These results can have transcendence in multiple applications based on the studied process.

y
Rifaximin prevents ethanol-induced liver injury in obese KK-A mice through modulation of small intestinal microbiota signature.Exacerbation of alcoholic hepatitis (AH) with comorbid metabolic syndrome is an emerging clinical problem, where microbiota plays a profound role in the pathogenesis. Here, we investigated the effect of rifaximin (RFX) on liver injury following chronic-binge ethanol (EtOH) administration in KK-A mice, a rodent model of metabolic syndrome. Female, 8-wk-old KK-A mice were fed Lieber-DeCarli diet (5% EtOH) for 10 days, following a single EtOH gavage (4 g/kg body wt). Some mice were given RFX (0.1 g/L, in liquid diet) orally. Small intestinal contents were collected from mice without binge. Intestinal microbiota was quantified using aerobic and anaerobic culturing techniques and further analyzed by 16S rRNA sequencing in detail. EtOH feeding/binge caused hepatic steatosis, oxidative stress, and induction of inflammatory cytokines in KK-A mice, which were markedly prevented by RFX treatment. Hepatic mRNA levels for cluster of differentiation 14, Toll-like receptor (TLR) 4, TLR2, and NADPH oxidase 2 were increased following EtOH feeding/binge, and administration of RFX completely suppressed their increase. The net amount of small intestinal bacteria was increased over threefold after chronic EtOH feeding as expected; however, RFX did not prevent this net increase. Intriguingly, the profile of small intestinal microbiota was dramatically changed following EtOH feeding in the order level, where the  predominated in the relative abundance. In sharp contrast, RFX drastically blunted the EtOH-induced increases in the  almost completely, with increased proportion of the . In conclusion, RFX prevents AH through modulation of small intestinal microbiota/innate immune responses in obese KK-A mice. Here we demonstrated that rifaximin (RFX) prevents chronic-binge ethanol (EtOH)-induced steatohepatitis in KK-A mice. Chronic EtOH feeding caused small intestinal bacterial overgrowth, with drastic alteration in the microbiota profile predominating the order . RFX minimized this EtOH induction in  with substitutive increases in . RFX also prevented EtOH-induced increases in portal lipopolysaccharide, and hepatic cluster of differentiation 14, toll-like receptor (TLR) 2, and TLR4 mRNA levels, suggesting the potential involvement of microbiota-related innate immune responses.

Peptostreptococcus anaerobius promotes colorectal carcinogenesis and modulates tumour immunity.Emerging evidence implicates a role of the gut microbiota in colorectal cancer (CRC). Peptostreptococcus anaerobius (P. anaerobius) is an anaerobic bacterium selectively enriched in the faecal and mucosal microbiota from patients with CRC, but its causative role and molecular mechanism in promoting tumorigenesis remain unestablished. We demonstrate that P. anaerobius adheres to the CRC mucosa and accelerates CRC development in Apc mice. In vitro assays and transmission electron microscopy revealed that P. anaerobius selectively adheres to CRC cell lines (HT-29 and Caco-2) compared to normal colonic epithelial cells (NCM460). We identified a P. anaerobius surface protein, putative cell wall binding repeat 2 (PCWBR2), which directly interacts with colonic cell lines via α/β integrin, a receptor frequently overexpressed in human CRC tumours and cell lines. Interaction between PCWBR2 and integrin α/β induces the activation of the PI3K-Akt pathway in CRC cells via phospho-focal adhesion kinase, leading to increased cell proliferation and nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-κB) activation. NF-κB in turn triggers a pro-inflammatory response as indicated by increased levels of cytokines, such as interleukin-10 and interferon-γ in the tumours of P. anaerobius-treated Apc mice. Analyses of tumour-infiltrating immune cell populations in P. anaerobius-treated Apc mice revealed significant expansion of myeloid-derived suppressor cells, tumour-associated macrophages and granulocytic tumour-associated neutrophils, which are associated with chronic inflammation and tumour progression. Blockade of integrin α/β by RGDS peptide, small interfering RNA or antibodies all impair P. anaerobius attachment and abolish P. anaerobius-mediated oncogenic response in vitro and in vivo. Collectively, we show that P. anaerobius drives CRC via a PCWBR2-integrin α/β-PI3K-Akt-NF-κB signalling axis and identify the PCWBR2-integrin α/β axis as a potential therapeutic target for CRC.

Removal of phosphate from aqueous solution using MgO-modified magnetic biochar derived from anaerobic digestion residue.A novel MgO-modified magnetic biochar (MgO@MBC) was made by chemical co-precipitation of Mg/Fe on anaerobic digestion residue (ADR) and subsequently pyrolyzing at different temperatures. MgO@MBC was used for phosphate recovery from aqueous solution. The physicochemical properties of MgO@MBC were comprehensively investigated using TEM-EDS, FT-IR, XRD, VSM, N adsorption-desorption and TGA. Results showed that MgO/γ-FeO nanoparticles were successfully deposited onto the surface of BC. The effects of reaction temperature, initial solution pH, MgO@MBC dosage, coexisting anions and phosphate concentration on the removal of phosphate by MgO@MBC were researched. Additionally, the adsorption process of phosphate onto MgO@MBC was well described by the pseudo second-order and pseudo first-order models, which indicated a chemisorption and physisorption process. Besides, the maximum adsorption capacity of MgO@MBC for phosphate by the Langmuir model were 149.25 mg/g at 25 °C. Moreover, the thermodynamic study suggested that the adsorption of phosphate onto MgO@MBC was a spontaneous and endothermic process. The adsorption mechanisms including physical absorption, surface electrostatic attraction, surface complexation and precipitation were revealed. It could be concluded that MgO@MBC exhibited high removal efficiency of phosphate and excellent magnetic property for the recovery. MgO@MBC could be utilized as a magnetically recoverable adsorbent to realize phosphate recovery and MgO@MBC after the adsorpion of phosphate could be applied in agricultural production as a fertilizer.

Ammonium bicarbonate pretreatment of corn stalk for improved methane production via anaerobic digestion: Kinetic modeling.This work studied the effects of ammonium carbonate pretreatment on biogas production during sequential anaerobic digestion. The results showed that the addition of ammonium bicarbonate (8%, w/w) obtained the highest biogas production of 14,690 mL with a yield of 222.6 mL g, which was 31% higher than that of un-pretreated (control experiment). Interestingly, the COD removal was increased by 100%. Furthermore, it was also helpful in stabilizing the pH of anaerobically digested corn stalk. Based on the results, the modified Gompertz equation fitted the cumulative biogas production curves very well, with high correlation coefficients (>0.994).

Hydrodynamics of up-flow hybrid anaerobic digestion reactors with built-in bioelectrochemical system.Understanding the electrode configuration is vital for the successful application of bioelectrochemical system (BES) in recalcitrant wastewater treatment. Especially in those traditional anaerobic processes that integrate with BES to construct effective hybrid bioreactors. Hybrid bioreactors employed granular graphite as electrode material achieved 86.62 ± 1.83% decolorization efficiency of azo dye acid orange 7 (AO7) at influent AO7 loading rate of 800 g/(m∙d) and it was about 6% higher than that with carbon fiber brush electrodes. Such electrodes were positioned above the anaerobic sludge layer and higher efficiency (8%) than the reactors with electrodes placed beneath the sludge layer was observed. Tracer experiments and modeling of residence time distribution indicated that the fluid pattern in hybrid bioreactors was modified to plug flow pattern and had a better consummate mixing ability compared to the conventional anaerobic reactor. Simulation using computational fluid dynamics technique showcased favorable mass transfer near electrode modules. The hydrodynamics of simulation and experimental results were connected by simplifying electrode module as a porous media model. This study thus proved that hybrid bioreactors can effectively enhance wastewater treatment comprehensively through the analysis of decolorization performance and hydrodynamics.

Anaerobic co-digestion of food waste and waste activated sludge: ADM1 modelling and microbial analysis to gain insights into the two substrates' synergistic effects.The reasons for the acidification problem affecting Food Waste (FW) anaerobic digestion were explored, combining the outcomes of microbiological data (FISH and CARD-FISH) and process modelling, based on the Anaerobic Digestion Model n°1 (ADM1). Long term semi continuous experiments were carried out, both with sole FW and with Waste Activated Sludge (WAS) as a co-substrate, at varying operational conditions (0.8-2.2 g VS L d) and FW / WAS ratios. Acidification was observed along FW mono-digestion, making it necessary to buffer the digesters; ADM1 modelling and experimental results suggested that this phenomenon was due to the methanogenic activity decline, most likely related to a deficiency in trace elements. WAS addition, even at proportions as low as 10% of the organic load, settled the acidification issue; this ability was related to the promotion of the methanogenic activity and the consequent enhancement of acetate consumption, rather than to WAS buffering capacity. The ability of the ADM1 to model processes affected by low microbial activity, such as FW mono-digestion, was also assessed. It was observed that the ADM1 was only adequate for digestions with a high activity level for both bacteria and methanogens (FISH/CARD-FISH ratio preferably >0.8) and, under these conditions, the model was able to correctly predict the relative abundance of both microbial populations, extrapolated from FISH analysis.

An improved hydrodynamic model for percolation and drainage dynamics for household and agricultural waste beds.This study focuses on the hydrodynamic modelling of percolation and drainage cycles in the context of solid-state anaerobic digestion and fermentation (VFA platform) of household solid wastes (HSW) in leach bed reactors. Attention was given to the characterization of the water distribution and hydrodynamic properties of the beds. The experimental procedure enabled the measurement of water content in waste beds at different states of compaction during injection and drainage, and this for two types of HSW and for two other type of wastes. A numerical model, set up with experimental data from water content measurements, highlighted that a capillary-free dual-porosity model was not able to correctly reproduce all the hydrodynamic features and particularly the drainage dynamics. The model was improved by adding a reservoir water fraction to macroporosity which allowed to correctly simulate dynamics. This model, validated with data obtained from agricultural wastes, enabled to explain more precisely the water behaviour during percolation processes and these results should be useful for driving either solid-state anaerobic digestion or fermentation reactors. Indeed, this implies that the recirculation regime will impact the renewal of the immobile water fraction in macroporosity, inducing different concentration levels of fermentation products in the leachate.

Anaerobic digestion, mixing, environmental fate, and transport.This section covers research published during the calendar year 2018 on mixing and transport processes. The review covers mixing of anaerobic digesters, mixing of heat transfer, and environmental fate and transport.

Methanosarcina acetivorans
A Membrane-Bound Cytochrome Enables  To Conserve Energy from Extracellular Electron Transfer.Extracellular electron exchange in  species and closely related  plays an important role in the global carbon cycle and enhances the speed and stability of anaerobic digestion by facilitating efficient syntrophic interactions. Here, we grew  with methanol provided as the electron donor and the humic analogue, anthraquione-2,6-disulfonate (AQDS), provided as the electron acceptor when methane production was inhibited with bromoethanesulfonate. AQDS was reduced with simultaneous methane production in the absence of bromoethanesulfonate. Transcriptomics revealed that expression of the gene for the transmembrane, multiheme, -type cytochrome MmcA was higher in AQDS-respiring cells than in cells performing methylotrophic methanogenesis. A strain in which the gene for MmcA was deleted failed to grow via AQDS reduction but grew with the conversion of methanol or acetate to methane, suggesting that MmcA has a specialized role as a conduit for extracellular electron transfer. Enhanced expression of genes for methanol conversion to methyl-coenzyme M and the Rnf complex suggested that methanol is oxidized to carbon dioxide in AQDS-respiring cells through a pathway that is similar to methyl-coenzyme M oxidation in methanogenic cells. However, during AQDS respiration the Rnf complex and reduced methanophenazine probably transfer electrons to MmcA, which functions as the terminal reductase for AQDS reduction. Extracellular electron transfer may enable the survival of methanogens in dynamic environments in which oxidized humic substances and Fe(III) oxides are intermittently available. The availability of tools for genetic manipulation of  makes it an excellent model microbe for evaluating -type cytochrome-dependent extracellular electron transfer in  The discovery of a methanogen that can conserve energy to support growth solely from the oxidation of organic carbon coupled to the reduction of an extracellular electron acceptor expands the possible environments in which methanogens might thrive. The potential importance of -type cytochromes for extracellular electron transfer to syntrophic bacterial partners and/or Fe(III) minerals in some  was previously proposed, but these studies with  provide the first genetic evidence for cytochrome-based extracellular electron transfer in  The results suggest parallels with Gram-negative bacteria, such as  and  species, in which multiheme outer-surface -type cytochromes are an essential component for electrical communication with the extracellular environment.  offers an unprecedented opportunity to study mechanisms for energy conservation from the anaerobic oxidation of one-carbon organic compounds coupled to extracellular electron transfer in  with implications not only for methanogens but possibly also for  that anaerobically oxidize methane.

Cascade processing of softwood bark with hot water extraction, pyrolysis and anaerobic digestion.A process model based on hot water extraction (HWE), slow pyrolysis and anaerobic digestion (AD) were used for pine and spruce bark utilisation. First tannins (32 mg/g and 11.8 mg/g, respectively) and polyphenols were recovered via HWE. Then, the residue was pyrolysed to produce biochar (marketable quality), gas (energy source) and liquid fractions. The liquid fraction was further separated into aqueous acidic fraction and to tar fraction. Bark, extracted bark residue and acidic liquid fraction from pyrolysis were treated in AD to produce biomethane and digestate. The methane yields from pine and spruce bark and extracted bark residue were low (from 42 to 96 mLCH4/gVSadded) and showed only small differences. In conclusion, cascade processing can improve the performance of subsequent single processes and utilise biomass sources with higher efficiency. The best processing chain may vary in different cases and the overall energy balance of processing needs further research.

Intestinal Microbial Products From Alcohol-Fed Mice Contribute to Intestinal Permeability and Peripheral Immune Activation.Alcohol use causes significant disruption of intestinal microbial communities, yet exactly how these dysbiotic communities interact with the host is unclear. We sought to understand the role of microbial products associated with alcohol dysbiosis in mice on intestinal permeability and immune activation in an in vitro model system.
Microbiota samples from binge-on-chronic alcohol-fed and pair-fed male and female mice were cultured in Gifu Anaerobic Broth for 24 hours under anaerobic conditions. Live/whole organisms were removed, and microbial products were collected and added to human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) or polarized C2BBe1 intestinal epithelial monolayers. Following stimulation, transepithelial electrical resistance (TEER) was measured using a volt/ohm meter and immune activation of PBMC was assessed via flow cytometry.
Microbial products from male and female alcohol-fed mice significantly decreased TEER (mean percentage change from baseline alcohol-fed 0.86 Ω/cm vs. pair-fed 1.10 Ω/cm ) compared to microbial products from control mice. Following ex vivo stimulation, immune activation of PBMC was assessed via flow cytometry. We found that microbial products from alcohol-fed mice significantly increased the percentage of CD38+ CD4+ (mean alcohol-fed 17.32% ± 0.683% standard deviation (SD) vs. mean pair-fed 14.2% ± 1.21% SD, p < 0.05) and CD8+ (mean alcohol-fed 20.28% ± 0.88% SD vs. mean pair-fed 12.58% ± 3.59% SD, p < 0.05) T cells.
Collectively, these data suggest that microbial products contribute to immune activation and intestinal permeability associated with alcohol dysbiosis. Further, utilization of these ex vivo microbial product assays will allow us to rapidly assess the impact of microbial products on intestinal permeability and immune activation and to identify probiotic therapies to ameliorate these defects.

Liquid hot water pretreatment to enhance the anaerobic digestion of wheat straw-effects of temperature and retention time.Wheat straw is an abundant agricultural waste that is rich in lignocellulose. However, its waxy surface, highly crystallized structure, and limited surface area make it difficult to be hydrolyzed and used efficiently by microorganisms. Liquid hot water (LHW) pretreatment was studied to explore the feasibility of improving the methane yield of wheat straw in anaerobic digestion (AD). The results showed that the crosslinking structure of wheat straw was broken by LHW pretreatment. Some pores and cracks appeared on the surface of the pretreated wheat straw, increasing the microbial attachment sites. Under different hydrothermal temperatures (150-225 °C) and retention times (5-60 min), the degradation of hemicellulose ranged from 27.69 to 99.07%. The maximum methane yield (201.81 mL CH/g volatile solids) was achieved after LHW pretreatment at 175 °C for 30 min, which was a 62.9% increase compared with non-treated straw. LHW at high temperatures such as 225 °C was not suitable for the AD of wheat straw. Methane yield results were fitted with the first-order and modified Gompertz equations to evaluate the hydrolysis rate and inhibitory effects of the pretreated materials in AD.

A kinetic study of roadside grass pyrolysis and digestate from anaerobic mono-digestion.The aim of this research is to evaluate the thermogravimetric behaviour of roadside grass and its digestate obtained from mesophilic anaerobic mono-digestion by quantifying its impacts on biomass composition and properties. Thermogravimetric measurements were conducted in a laboratory furnace under nitrogen flowrate of 100 mL/min in the temperature range from 35 to 800 °C at five different heating rates of 2.5, 5, 10, 15 and 20 °C/min. Friedman and Kissinger-Akahira-Sunose differential and integral isoconversional models were applied to determine the distributions of activation energies and modified pre-exponential factors per reacted mass (degree of conversion). The investigation demonstrated that anaerobic digestion of roadside grass can be used to generate biochar-richer material (with significantly greater yield of final residues after pyrolysis) with less energy required for subsequent pyrolysis in comparison with raw roadside grass.

Assessing practical identifiability during calibration and cross-validation of a structured model for high-solids anaerobic digestion.High-solids anaerobic digestion (HS-AD) of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) is operated at a total solid (TS) content ≥ 10% to enhance the waste treatment economy, though it might be associated to free ammonia (NH) inhibition. This study aimed to calibrate and cross-validate a HS-AD model for homogenized reactors in order to assess the effects of high NH levels in HS-AD of OFMSW, but also to evaluate the suitability of the reversible non-competitive inhibition function to reproduce the effect of NH on the main acetogenic and methanogenic populations. The practical identifiability of structural/biochemical parameters (i.e. 35) and initial conditions (i.e. 32) was evaluated using batch experiments at different TS and/or inoculum-to-substrate ratios. Variance-based global sensitivity analysis and approximate Bayesian computation were used for parameter optimization. The experimental data in this study permitted to estimate up to 8 biochemical parameters, whereas the rest of parameters and biomass contents were poorly identifiable. The study also showed the relatively high levels of NH (i.e. up to 2.3 g N/L) and ionic strength (i.e. up to 0.9 M) when increasing TS in HS-AD of OFMSW. However, the NH non-competitive function was unable to capture the acetogenic/methanogenic inhibition. Therefore, the calibration emphasized the need for target-oriented experimental data to enhance the practical identifiability and the predictive capabilities of structured HS-AD models, but also the need for further testing the NH inhibition function used in these simulations.

Optimization of an in vitro gut microbiome biotransformation platform with chlorogenic acid as model compound: From fecal sample to biotransformation product identification.Recent data clearly show that the gut microbiota plays a significant role in the biotransformation of many endogenous molecules and xenobiotics, leading to a potential influence of this microbiotic metabolism on activation, inactivation and possible toxicity of these compounds. To study the colonic biotransformation of xenobiotics by the gut microbiome, in vitro models are often used as they allow dynamic and multiple sampling overtime. However, the pre-analytical phase should be carefully optimized to enable biotransformation product identification representative for the in vivo situation. During this study, chlorogenic acid was used as a model compound to optimize a ready-to-use gut microbiome biotransformation platform using an in vitro gastrointestinal dialysis-model with colon phase together with an instrumental platform using liquid chromatography coupled to high resolution mass spectrometry (LC-QTOF-MS). Identification of the biotransformation products of chlorogenic acid was performed using complementary suspect and non-targeted data analysis approaches (MZmine + R and MPP workflow). Concerning the pre-analytical phase, (i) the influence of different incubation media (Wilkins-Chalgren Anaerobic Broth (WCB) and (versus) phosphate buffer) and different incubation times (prior to implementation in the colonic stage of the dialysis model) on fecal bacterial composition and concentration were investigated and (ii) four different sample preparation methods (centrifugation, extraction, sonication and freeze-drying) were evaluated targeting colonic biotransformation of chlorogenic acid. WCB as incubation medium showed to introduce substantial variation in the bacterial composition of the fecal samples, while the sterile phosphate buffer guaranteed a closer resemblance to the in vivo composition. Furthermore, incubation during 24 h in sterile phosphate buffer as medium showed no significant increase or decrease in anaerobic bacterial concentration, concluding that incubation prior to the colonic stage is not needed. Concerning sample preparation, centrifugation, sonication and extraction gave similar results, while freeze-drying appeared to be inferior. The extraction method was selected as an optimal sample preparation method given the quick execution together with a good instrumental sensitivity. This study optimized a ready-to-use platform to investigate colonic biotransformation of xenobiotics by using chlorogenic acid as a model compound. This platform can be used in the future to study differences in colonic biotransformation of xenobiotics using fecal samples of different patient groups.

The underlying mechanism of calcium peroxide pretreatment enhancing methane production from anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge.Recent investigations verified that calcium peroxide (CaO) could be used to pretreat waste activated sludge to promote methane yield from anaerobic digestion. However, the underlying mechanism of how CaO pretreatment promotes methane production is unclear. This work therefore aims to provide insights into such systems. Experimental results showed that with an increase of CaO dosage from 0 to 0.14 g/g VSS (volatile suspended solids) the methane yield increased linearly from 146.3 to 215.9 mL/g VSS. Further increases of CaO resulted in decreases in methane yield. CaO pretreatment promoted the disintegration of sludge and the degradation of sludge recalcitrant organics (especially humus and lignocellulose), thereby providing more substrates for subsequent methane production. Ultraviolet absorption spectroscopy indicated that CaO enhanced the cleavage of unsaturated conjugated bonds and reduced the aromaticity of humus and lignocellulose. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy showed that CaO changed the structures and functional groups of humus and lignocellulose, making them transform to be biodegradable. GC/MS analyses exhibited that the degradation products of humus and lignocellulose included several types of small molecular organics such as ester-like, acid-like, and alcohol-like substances. Further investigation demonstrated that substantial methane could be produced from these degradation products. It was also found that the presence of recalcitrant organics was detrimental to anaerobes relevant to anaerobic digestion, and the degradation of such recalcitrant organics mitigated their inhibitions to the anaerobes. Model-based analysis suggested that CaO pretreatment increased the maximum methane yield and methane production rate, which were consistent with the analysis above.

Model-based control for a demand-driven biogas production to cover residual load rises.The development of systems for energy storage and demand-driven energy production will be essential to enable the switch from fossil to renewable energy sources in future. To cover the residual load rises, a rigorous dynamic process model based on the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) was applied to analyse the flexible operation of biogas plants. For this, the model was optimised and an operational concept for a demand-driven energy production was worked out. Different substrates were analysed, both by batch fermentation and Weende analysis with van Soest method, to determine the input data of the model. The lab results show that the substrates have got different degradation kinetics and biogas potentials. Finally, the ADM1 was extended with a feeding algorithm which is based on a PI controller. Essential feeding times and quantities of available substrates were calculated so that a biogas plant can cover a defined energy demand. The results prove that a flexible operation of biogas plants with a feeding strategy is possible.

Simulation of two-dimensional attainable regions and its application to model digester structures for maximum stability of anaerobic treatment process.Unlike high-rate anaerobic digesters that employ some mechanism to retain microbial sludge mass, low-rate systems use sufficiently long hydraulic retention times to ensure process stability, which becomes economically unattractive for treating large quantities of waste. This study presents the use of attainable region to develop a new strategy to enhance the stability of low-rate digesters. By considering three digestion cases, diary manure only (batch 1) or diary manure with granular (batch 2) or lagoon (batch) sludge as innoculum, the following findings were obtained. (1) For a given concentration of volatile acids in an anaerobic digester, higher concentrations of methanogenic archae can be attained using a digester structure (combination of different digesters) as opposed to single digester. (2) For a given digested substrate, a change in the source of inoculum results in a change in the limits of achievability by the system (attainable limits for batches 1, 2 and 3 were 46.486(g/L), 5.562(g/L) and 0.551(g/L), which resulted in performance improvements of 118.604%,175.627% and 200.436% respectively), and hence optimal digester structure. The evidence from this study suggests that the technique can be used to simultaneously improve process stability, define performance targets and propose digester structures required to achieve a given target.

Identification of Clostridium cochlearium as an electroactive microorganism from the mouse gut microbiome.Microbial electroactivity, the metabolically relevant transfer of electrons between microorganisms and solid conductors, was first discovered for now well characterized model organisms from hypoxic or anaerobic water or sediment samples. Recent findings indicate that the metabolic trait of electroactivity might as well be important within the microbiome of the mammalian gut. Based on a pre-selection from the mouse intestinal bacterial collection five microorganisms originating from diverse parts of the gut were screened for electroactivity. As there is no marker gene for electroactivity, the ability to synthesize cytochromes and metabolize redox-mediators was studied in-silico. Clostridium cochlearium showed highest electroactivity and Lactobacillus reuteri as well as Staphylococcus xylosus show putative electroactivity, as well. The maximum current density of C. cochlearium of 0.53 ± 0.02 mA cm after only 5.2 h of incubation was clearly linked to growth and glucose consumption. Cyclic voltammetric analysis on C. cochlearium revealed a formal potential of the extracellular electron transfer (EET) site of +0.22 ± 0.05 V versus Ag/AgCl sat. KCl (and + 0.42 V versus SHE) and indicates that EET is not based on biofilm formation, but the involvement of either redox-active molecules or planktonic cells. The potential of the gut as habitat for electroactives and their physiological role are discussed.

2 13
H and C isotope fractionation analysis of organophosphorus compounds for characterizing transformation reactions in biogas slurry: Potential for anaerobic treatment of contaminated biomass.The ability of anaerobic digestion (AD) to eliminate organophosphorus model compounds (OPs) with structural elements of phosphate, phosphorothioate and phosphorodithioate esters was studied. The enzymatic mechanism of the first irreversible degradation reaction was characterized using metabolite pattern and kinetic H/C-isotope effect in original, cell-free and heat sterilized biogas slurry. The isotope fractionation study suggests different modes of degradation reactions. Representatives for phosphate ester, tris(2-chloroethyl) phosphate and tris(1,3-dichloro-2-propyl) phosphate, were hydrolyzed in biogas slurry without carbon or hydrogen isotope fractionation. Representatives for phosphorodithioate, Dimethoate and Malathion, were degraded in original slurry yielding carbon enrichment factor (ε) of -0.6 ± 0.1‰ and -5.5 ± 0.1‰ (-0.9 ± 0.1‰ and -7.2 ± 0.5‰ in cell-free slurry), without hydrogen isotope fractionation. Phosphorothioate degradation represented by Parathion and Parathion-methyl yielded surprisingly different ε (-0.7 ± 0.2 and -3.6 ± 0.4‰) and ε (-33 ± 5 and -5 ± 1‰) in original slurry compared to cell-free slurry (ε = -2.5 ± 0.5 and -8.6 ± 1.4‰; ε = -61 ± 10 and -10 ± 3‰) suggesting H-C bond cleavage. Degradation of Parathion and Parathion-methyl in sterilized slurry gave carbon but not hydrogen fractionation implying relative thermostable enzymatic activity with different mechanism. The correlation of H and C stable isotope fractionation of Parathion in biogas slurry showed distinct pattern (Λ = 31 ± 11, Λ = 20 ± 2), indicating different mechanism from chemical hydrolysis. Overall, AD can be a potential treatment for OPs contaminated biomass or contaminated organic waste material.

Exploring the impact of bulk and substrate physics on hydrolysis rates and biogas yields of anaerobic digesters pretreated with thermal hydrolysis.This study evaluated the role of bulk and substrate physics on hydrolysis rates and biogas yields in anaerobic digestion (AD) pretreated by thermal hydrolysis (THP). Although THP decreases sludge viscosity, no evidence was found that bulk viscosity impacted the biogas yield or hydrolysis kinetics. In addition, no significant difference between the biogas yields for different total solids concentrations nor floc sizes was detected. However, increased mixing speeds did increase biogas yields. As a result of thermal treatment, the model protein, bovine serum albumin, was harder to degrade in terms of both overall biodegradability and hydrolysis rates when their macrostructures were changed from liquid to gel and to solid structures; the opposite was true for the model polysaccharide, amylopectin. These results demonstrated that hydrolysis in THP-AD systems was impacted mostly by the physical properties of the substrate (gelation) rather than the bulk physical properties within the digester. PRACTITIONER POINTS: Bulk viscosity does not significantly impact hydrolysis efficiency (biogas yield). However, mixing speed impacts hydrolysis beyond biogas holdup effect. Increasing the amount of substrate-microbe collisions through increasing biomass concentration does not have an impact on hydrolysis efficiency or biogas yield. Proteins are harder to degrade when macrostructure changes from liquid to gel/solid as a result of heat treatment. Polysaccharides are easier to degrade when macrostructure changes from liquid to gel/solid as a result of heat treatment. The time required for digesters to reach peak biogas production rates increased with decreasing specific surface available on gel and solid structures.

A simplified model to simulate bioaugmented anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic biomass: Biogas production efficiency related to microbiological data.Mathematical model applications for the bioaugmented anaerobic digestion (BAD) process seem to be lacking in the scientific literature, even more so when related to microbiological data. The present study suggests a simplified mathematical model to investigate and simulate the process kinetics of bioaugmented anaerobic digestion (BAD) aimed at improving biogas production from wheat straw (WS). Bioaugmented conditions were obtained through a mixed inoculum of anaerobic ruminal fungi (ARF) and hydrogen-producing fermenting bacteria (F210) added to a methanogenic inoculum. The investigation focused on two process configurations characterized by a mono (I-BAD) and two-stage (II-BAD) process and a conventional anaerobic digestion (AD) control test. Each configuration was used on two operating scales (i.e., 120 ml and 12,000 ml reactor volume) to provide different data sets for the calibration and validation of the mathematical model proposed. The model calibration step was used to determine the optimal values of selected parameters displaying higher significance for experimental result predictability. The model calibration results highlighted a similar behavior for both BAD tests, which was further strengthened by a statistical analysis supporting the observed correlation regardless of the BAD configuration involved. The BAD configuration always enhanced the CH production (>70%) with a faster kinetic in the II-BAD test. The microbiological results support the superior performance of the II-BAD test, displaying higher Archaea fractions (up to 14.5% on day 23) with values more than double compared to I-BAD and triple compared to the AD test. Furthermore, the presence of Methanosarcina inside the Archaea guild (6.4% and 4.5% at days 11 and 61, respectively) ensures a greater diversification of the metabolic pathways and supports the strength of the process performance. Cell density values are strongly in line with these results.

Amino Acids and Ribose: Drivers of Protein and RNA Fermentation by Ingested Bacteria of a Primitive Gut Ecosystem.Earthworms are among the most primitive animals and are of fundamental importance to the turnover of organic matter in the terrestrial biosphere. These invertebrates ingest materials that are colonized by microbes, some of which are subject to disruption by the crop/gizzard or other lytic events during gut passage. Protein and RNA are dominant polymers of disrupted microbial cells, and these biopolymers facilitate robust fermentations by surviving ingested bacteria. To further resolve these fermentations, amino acids and ribose (as fermentable constituents of protein and RNA, respectively) were evaluated as potential drivers of fermentation in gut content of the model earthworm  (taxa were examined with 16S rRNA-based analyses). Of eight amino acids tested, glutamate, aspartate, and threonine were most stimulatory and yielded dissimilar fermentations facilitated by contrasting taxa (e.g., glutamate stimulated the  and yielded H and formate, whereas aspartate stimulated the  and yielded succinate and propionate). A marginal Stickland fermentation was associated with the  and  Ribose fermentation yielded a complex product profile facilitated primarily by the  The transient nature of succinate was linked to its decarboxylation to propionate and the , whereas the transient nature of formate was linked to formate-hydrogen lyase activity and the  These findings reinforce the likelihood that (i) the animal host and hosted fermentative bacteria compete for the constituents of protein and RNA in the alimentary canal and (ii) diverse gut fermenters engaged in the fermentation of these constituents produce products that can be utilized by earthworms. Animal health is linked to gut ecosystems whose primary function is normally the digestion of dietary matter. Earthworms are representative of one of the oldest known animal lineages and, despite their primitive nature, have unique environmental impact by virtue of their dietary consumption of their habitat, i.e., soil-associated matter. A resident gut community is a hallmark of many gut ecosystems of evolutionarily more advanced animals, but the alimentary canal of earthworms is dominated by ingested transient soil microbes. Protein and RNA are (i) the primary organic components of microbial cells that are subject to lysis during gut passage and (ii) fermentable dietary substrates in the alimentary canal. This study examined the gut-associated fermentation of constituents of these biopolymers to determine how their fermentation is integrated to the microbiological dynamics of the gut and might contribute to earthworm-linked transformations of organic matter in the terrestrial biosphere.

Anaerobic digestion of agricultural manure and biomass - Critical indicators of risk and knowledge gaps.Anaerobic digestion (AD) has been identified as a potential green technology to treat food and municipal waste, agricultural residues, including farmyard manure and slurry (FYM&S), to produce biogas. FYM&S and digestate can act as soil conditioners and provide valuable nutrients to plants; however, it may also contain harmful pathogens. This study looks at the critical indicators in determining the microbial inactivation potential of AD and the possible implications for human and environmental health of spreading the resulting digestate on agricultural land. In addition, available strategies for risk assessment in the context of EU and Irish legislation are assessed. Storage time and process parameters (including temperature, pH, organic loading rate, hydraulic retention time), feedstock recipe (carbon-nitrogen ratio) to the AD plant (both mesophilic and thermophilic) were all assessed to significantly influence pathogen inactivation. However, complete inactivation of all pathogens is unlikely. There are limited studies evaluating risks from FYM&S as a feedstock in AD and the spreading of resulting digestate. The lack of process standardisation and varying feedstocks between AD farms means risk must be evaluated on a case by case basis and calls for a more unified risk assessment methodology. In addition, there is a need for the enhancement of AD farm-based modelling techniques and datasets to help in advancing knowledge in this area.

On the Effect of Aqueous Ammonia Soaking Pre-Treatment on Continuous Anaerobic Digestion of Digested Swine Manure Fibers.(1) Background: The continuously increasing demand for renewable energy sources renders anaerobic digestion as one of the most promising technologies for renewable energy production. Due to the animal production intensification, manure is being used as the primary feedstock for most biogas plants. Their economical profitable operation, however, relies on increasing the methane yield from the solid fraction of manure, which is not so easily degradable. The solid fraction after anaerobic digestion, the so-called digested fibers, consists mainly of hardly biodegradable material and comes at a lower mass per unit volume of manure compared to the solid fraction before anaerobic digestion. Therefore, investigation on how to increase the biodegradability of digested fibers is very relevant. So far, Aqueous Ammonia Soaking (AAS), has been successfully applied on digested fibers separated from the effluent of a manure-fed, full-scale anaerobic digester to enhance their methane productivity in batch experiments. (2) Methods: In the present study, continuous experiments at a mesophilic (38 °C) CSTR-type anaerobic digester fed with swine manure first and a mixture of manure with AAS-treated digested fibers in the sequel, were performed. Anaerobic Digestion Model 1 (ADM1) previously fitted on manure fed digester was used in order to assess the effect of the addition of AAS-pre-treated digested manure fibers on the kinetics of anaerobic digestion process. (3) Results and Conclusions: The methane yield of AAS-treated digested fibers under continuous operation was 49-68% higher than that calculated in batch experiments in the past. It was found that AAS treatment had a profound effect mainly on the disintegration/hydrolysis rate of particulate carbohydrates. Comparison of the data obtained in the present study with the data obtained with AAS-pre-treated raw manure fibers in the past revealed that hydrolysis kinetics after AAS pre-treatment were similar for both types of biomasses.

Modeling long-term performance of full-scale anaerobic expanded granular sludge bed reactor treating confectionery industry wastewater.Production and consumption of confectionery products, such as chocolate, sugar, and cookies, have increased worldwide. Thus, management and treatment of confectionery effluents, as one of the most important agro-industrial wastewaters, become essential. Confectionery industries produce high-strength and highly biodegradable wastewaters that are appropriate for biological treatment prior to discharge. In this study, long-term dynamic performance of a full-scale anaerobic expanded granular sludge bed (EGSB) reactor treating confectionery effluent was simulated by using Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1). Substrate fractionation was carried out based on the ADM1 state variables, and then, the model was calibrated with 300 days of operation data. The calibrated model could capture the dynamic performance of the anaerobic reactor for a long validation period of 500 days. Although the reactor was operated under highly fluctuating volumetric loading rates (VLR) between 0.2 and 5 kg chemical oxygen demand (COD)/m day, the model results indicated medium to high prediction accuracy for effluent COD, methane generation, total volatile fatty acids (VFA), and pH parameters. Mean relative absolute errors for COD, methane flow, VFA, and pH parameter simulations were 22%, 16%, 29%, and 1%, respectively. The study presents the applicability of ADM1 for full-scale reactors treating industrial wastewaters.

Activated sludge and other aerobic suspended culture processes.The fields in the process model of activated sludge, the characteristics and species of microbial communities, dynamics and mechanism in the process, the influence of different xenobiotics on activated sludge, anaerobic digestion on waste activated sludge, and design and operation for activated sludge are reviewed in 2018. Contrast with the past reviews, several new highlights such as waste activated sludge treatment, antibiotic and heavy-metal xenobiotic, and pretreatment for anaerobic digestion are mentioned in 2018, which indicated that the research tendency of activated sludge from wastewater treatment to waste sludge treatment in the retrieved literature is developing. PRACTITIONER POINTS: None.

Reassessing the dosing of cefoxitin prophylaxis during major abdominal surgery: insights from microdialysis and population pharmacokinetic modelling.Cefoxitin is frequently used for surgical antibiotic prophylaxis (SAP). Using microdialysis, we evaluated whether the currently recommended dosing regimen is appropriate to maintain cefoxitin subcutaneous tissue concentrations above the MIC for pathogens involved in abdominal surgical site infection.
Data from eight patients undergoing major abdominal surgery were analysed using population pharmacokinetic modelling, and Monte Carlo simulations were conducted to determine the PTA for aerobic and anaerobic pathogens. ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT02703857.
Only 2.3% and 47.4% of the simulated patients maintained cefoxitin subcutaneous concentrations above the MIC breakpoint for anaerobic (MIC = 16 mg/L) and aerobic (MIC = 8 mg/L) pathogens, respectively. New simulations with administration of a loading dose followed by a constant infusion of cefoxitin were conducted and demonstrate that, notwithstanding using the same total dose per unit of time, continuous infusion of cefoxitin can cover aerobes in 96.6% of the simulated patients, but remains insufficient for anaerobic bacteria.
The recommended dosing regimen of cefoxitin is insufficient for covering the usual bacteria during abdominal surgery. Administration of a loading dose followed by a constant infusion should be considered for aerobic bacteria and cefoxitin should be avoided as SAP for anaerobic bacteria.

Portal hyperperfusion after major liver resection and associated sinusoidal damage is a therapeutic target to protect the remnant liver.Extended liver resection results in loss of a large fraction of the hepatic vascular bed, thereby causing abrupt alterations in perfusion of the remnant liver. Mechanisms of hemodynamic adaptation and associated changes in oxygen metabolism after liver resection and the effect of mechanical portal blood flow reduction were assessed. A pig model ( = 16) of extended partial hepatectomy was established that included continuous observation for 24 h under general anesthesia. Pigs were randomly separated into two groups, one with a portal flow reduction of 70% compared with preoperative values, and the other as a control ( = 8, each). In controls, portal flow [mean (SD)] increased from 74 (8) mL·min·100 g preoperatively to 240 (48) mL·min·100 g at 6 h after resection ( < 0.001). Hepatic arterial buffer response was abolished after resection. Oxygen uptake per unit liver mass increased from 4.0 (1.1) mL·min·100 g preoperatively to 7.7 (1.7) mL·min·100 g 8 h after resection ( = 0.004). Despite this increase in relative oxygen uptake, total hepatic oxygen consumption (V̇o) was not maintained, and markers of hypoxia and anaerobic metabolism were significantly increased in hepatocytes after resection. Reduced postoperative portal flow was associated with significantly decreased levels of aspartate aminotransferase and bilirubin and increased hepatic clearance of indocyanine green. In conclusion, major liver resection was associated with persistent portal hyperperfusion, loss of the hepatic arterial buffer response, decreased total hepatic V̇o and with increased anaerobic metabolism. Portal flow modulation by partial portal vein occlusion attenuated liver injury after extended liver resection. Because of continuous monitoring, the experiments allow precise observation of the influence of liver resection on systemic and local abdominal hemodynamic alterations and oxygen metabolism. Major liver resection is associated with significant and persistent portal hyperperfusion and loss of hepatic arterial buffer response. The correlation of portal hyperperfusion and parameters of liver injury and dysfunction offers a novel therapeutic option to attenuate liver injury after extended liver resection.

Characteristics of two-phase mesophilic anaerobic digestion of co-substrates consisting of waste activated sludge and corn silage based on modified ADM1.Two-phase anaerobic digestion of co-substrates is a promising process to alleviate environmental pollution, product valuable methane gas and renew energy. A modified anaerobic digestion model No. 1 (ADM1) was proposed to characterize the mesophilic two-phase anaerobic digestion at the feedstock ratios of waste activated sludge to corn silage 1:1, 2:1, 3:1, respectively. The sensitivity analysis of the modified ADM1 was operated on the platform AQUASIM 2.0 while the kinetic parameter estimation and simulation was implemented on the platform MATLAB 7.0. The Monod maximum specific uptake rate for acetate (k) was calibrated to 29.0 d, and the half-saturation value for acetate (k) 0.40 kgCOD/m in the acidification phase while k 35.0 d, Monod maximum specific uptake rate for hydrogen (k) 23.0 d and k 0.70 kgCOD/m in the methanogenic phase in the modified ADM1. The results from the batch tests showed the optimal feedstock ratio of waste activated sludge to corn silage was 2:1. Under this condition, chemical oxygen demand could reach the largest removal at around 51.0%, while Ammonia-nitrogen and total phosphorous increased by the maximal 192.0% and 71.5%. Besides, volatile fatty acids were lowest at about 0.27 kgCOD/m, and the biogas flow was highest at about 47.6 mL/d. The pH values were always maintained at 6.8-7.2. Good agreements could be achieved between the measured data and the simulation with the modified ADM1. Therefore, the optimal and preferable operating factors during two-phase anaerobic digestion of co-substrates could be obtained from the simulation. The modified model will contribute to further investigating and predicting the characteristics of the process.

Application of IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 to simulate butyric acid, propionic acid, mixed acid, and ethanol type fermentative systems using a variable acidogenic stoichiometric approach.IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) is the most widely recognised and popular mathematical model for anaerobic digestion processes. However, the application of ADM1 to acidogenic fermentation is limited by its use of constant stoichiometry to describe the formation of products via carbohydrate fermentation. This study presents a modification of ADM1 using a variable acidogenic stoichiometric approach in which the hydrogen partial pressure (p) and pH are used to predict and regulate the acidogenic process. The fermentation of ethanol and its kinetics were introduced into the model structure. Experimental data from mixed acid-type fermentation in a 28.4 L anaerobic baffled reactor (ABR) fed with a sucrose solution with a chemical oxygen demand of 4000 mg L were used to calibrate the model parameters. Two case studies involving continuous ethanol-type fermentation in an ABR and a continuous stirring tank reactor (CSTR) were used to validate the approach. The modified model achieved good predictions of the experimental data collected from butyric acid, propionic acid, mixed acid, and ethanol-type fermentation in the ABR and CSTR using the standard ADM1 parameter values without any parameter fitting beyond implementation of the variable acidogenic stoichiometry. The p and pH thresholds in butyric acid, propionic acid, mixed acid, and ethanol-type fermentation could be predicted using this model, which was shown to be a valid mathematical tool for the regulation of fermentation type.

The response of five intestinal cell lines to anoxic conditions in vitro.In vivo oxygen levels in tissues range from 1% to 15%, while mechanistic cell culture studies employ an atmospheric oxygen level of 21% to grow cells. These oxygen concentrations are therefore not representative for conditions where the cell response is dependent on oxygen partial pressure. In pathological situation, such as (colon) cancer or chronic inflammation, tissue oxygenation is severely affected, and even under physiological conditions a steep oxygen gradient is present in the large intestine, where epithelial cells co-exist with microbial species, resulting in almost anoxia at the midpoint of the lumen. In these situations, a better characterisation of the essential cellular behaviour under hypoxia or anoxia is required.
We have characterised the cellular response of commonly used cell cultures for the study of intestinal epithelial processes and colon cancer development (Caco-2, HT-29, SW480, HCT 116 and LoVo) under conventional normoxic conditions (21% O ) and in an anoxic (<0.1% O ) environment generated in an anaerobic chamber. In general, anoxic conditions led to lower levels of oxidative stress, a reduction in reduced glutathione/oxidised glutathione (GSH/GSSG) ratio, the shift of the redox status to oxidised glutathione levels, reduced cell proliferation, decreased barrier function and higher glycolysis rates at the expense of oxidative respiration.
Continuous exposure to anoxic conditions, such as occurring at the host-microbe interface in the intestine, may create an adaptive metabolic cellular response of the cells.
Considering adequate oxygen levels is essential for creating more physiologically relevant models for the study of host-microbe interactions and colon cancer development.

Improving anaerobic digestion via direct interspecies electron transfer requires development of suitable characterization methods.Recent anaerobic digestion studies commonly attribute performance improvements (e.g. increased methane production, enhanced process stability, reduced startup times) to direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET), even though only indirect evidence of DIET is available and DIET alone does not explain enhanced performance in many cases. This review evaluates methods believed to confirm the occurrence of DIET in anaerobic systems. 16S rRNA gene sequencing and meta-omics approaches are necessary to further DIET knowledge but are limited in their ability to confirm the occurrence of DIET. In situ use of cyclic voltammetry should be explored further, as well as microscopy and image analysis procedures to quantify stained cytochromes. Furthermore, linking interspecies distance, interspecies mixing, and cellular activity to a DIET-based electron transfer model is promising but needs further validation for anaerobic digestion systems. In short, a combination of methods is necessary to confirm the occurrence and expand our knowledge of DIET.

Improvement of Sugarcane Stillage (Vinasse) Anaerobic Digestion with Cheese Whey as its Co-substrate: Achieving High Methane Productivity and Yield.This study investigated methane production in an anaerobic sequencing batch biofilm reactor (AnSBBR) by co-digesting sugarcane vinasse and cheese whey. The assessment was based on the influence of feed strategy, interaction between cycle time and influent concentration, applied volumetric organic load (OLR), and temperature over system stability and performance. The system showed flexibility with regard to the feed strategy, but the reduction of cycle time and influent concentration, at the same OLR, resulted in lower methane productivity. Increasing organic load, up to the value of 15.27 gCOD L day, favored the process, increasing methane yield and productivity. Temperature reduction from 30 to 25 °C resulted in worse performance, although increasing it to 35 °C provided similar results to 30 °C. The best results were achieved at an OLR of 15.27 gCOD L day, cycle time of 8 h, fed-batch operation, and temperature of 30 °C. The system achieved soluble COD removal efficiency of 89%, methane productivity of 208.5 molCH m day and yield of 15.76 mmolCH gCOD. The kinetic model fit indicated methanogenesis preference for the hydrogenotrophic route. At the industrial scale estimative, considering a scenario with a sugarcane ethanol plant with ethanol production of 150,896 m year, it was estimated energy production of 25,544 MWh month.

Augmenting Biogas Process Modeling by Resolving Intracellular Metabolic Activity.The process of anaerobic digestion in which waste biomass is transformed to methane by complex microbial communities has been modeled for more than 16 years by parametric gray box approaches that simplify process biology and do not resolve intracellular microbial activity. Information on such activity, however, has become available in unprecedented detail by recent experimental advances in metatranscriptomics and metaproteomics. The inclusion of such data could lead to more powerful process models of anaerobic digestion that more faithfully represent the activity of microbial communities. We augmented the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) as the standard kinetic model of anaerobic digestion by coupling it to Flux-Balance-Analysis (FBA) models of methanogenic species. Steady-state results of coupled models are comparable to standard ADM1 simulations if the energy demand for non-growth associated maintenance (NGAM) is chosen adequately. When changing a constant feed of maize silage from continuous to pulsed feeding, the final average methane production remains very similar for both standard and coupled models, while both the initial response of the methanogenic population at the onset of pulsed feeding as well as its dynamics between pulses deviates considerably. In contrast to ADM1, the coupled models deliver predictions of up to 1,000s of intracellular metabolic fluxes per species, describing intracellular metabolic pathway activity in much higher detail. Furthermore, yield coefficients which need to be specified in ADM1 are no longer required as they are implicitly encoded in the topology of the species' metabolic network. We show the feasibility of augmenting ADM1, an ordinary differential equation-based model for simulating biogas production, by FBA models implementing individual steps of anaerobic digestion. While cellular maintenance is introduced as a new parameter, the total number of parameters is reduced as yield coefficients no longer need to be specified. The coupled models provide detailed predictions on intracellular activity of microbial species which are compatible with experimental data on enzyme synthesis activity or abundance as obtained by metatranscriptomics or metaproteomics. By providing predictions of intracellular fluxes of individual community members, the presented approach advances the simulation of microbial community driven processes and provides a direct link to validation by state-of-the-art experimental techniques.

Dissipation and persistence of sulfonamides, quinolones and tetracyclines in anaerobically digested biosolids and compost during short-term storage under natural conditions.This study investigated the dissipation and persistence of three groups of residual antibiotics (sulfonamides, quinolones, and tetracyclines) in anaerobically digested (AD) biosolids and compost during 28 days of storage under environmental conditions. Results showed that the total dissipation of sulfonamides was above 70%, which was higher than that of quinolones and tetracyclines. Quinolones were more persistent in compost than in AD biosolids. Similar dissipation rates in AD biosolids and compost were observed for tetracyclines. Of the four commonly used models, the availability-adjusted first-order model (AAFO) was the optimal to fit the dissipation of antibiotics, which was mainly governed by their initial concentrations, matrix pH, and the presence of organic matter and microorganisms. The half-lives of sulfonamides, quinolones, and tetracyclines in AD biosolids were 6-51 days, 1-136 days, and 15-19 days; while those were 3-21 days, 3-74 days, and 7-27 days in compost, respectively. In particular, enrofloxacin and ofloxacin were the most persistent in AD biosolids and compost, respectively. Moreover, tetracyclines were more prone to cause pseudo-persistent pollution due to their much higher residuals in comparison to sulfonamides and quinolones. Thus, both AD biosolids and compost should be further treated before their farmland applications to control antibiotic introduction to the environment.

Steam explosion pretreatment of rice straw to improve structural carbohydrates anaerobic digestibility for biomethanation.Effectiveness of steam explosion (SE) pretreatment for deconstructing the complex structural carbohydrates (SC) and lignin recalcitrance properties of rice straw (RS) for conjunctive improvement of biofuel yield and waste valorization was evaluated. This work exhibited successful pretreatment of RS at a different pressure (1.2, 1.5, and 1.8 MPa) and retention (3, 6, 9, and 12 min) for enhancement of SC contribution to biomethane production. Regression analysis demonstrated that SE pretreatment efficiency improved at high-temperature and short-retention time for biodegradation of RS. Maximum cumulative methane yield (EMY) achieved 254.8 mL/gvs at 1.2 MPa (3 min) of SE-treated RS with 62.7% of very significant improvement compared with untreated RS (156.6 mL/gvs). Furthermore, solid fraction of xylose, arabinose, cellobiose, glucose, and acid-soluble lignin in SE-treated RS of 1.2 MPa (3 min) were biodegraded by 27.4%, 46.4%, 100%, 48.8%, and 14.1%, respectively, after anaerobic digestion. Therefore, SE pretreatment was an encouraging approach for enhancing SC conversion to biomethane and waste resource to circular economy.

Comparison of performance in an anaerobic digestion process: one-reactor vs two-reactor configurations.The present work compares two types of configurations for a two-reaction (acidogenesis and methanogenesis) anaerobic digestion model. These configurations are as follows: (i) a single bioreactor, where the acidogenesis and methanogenesis reactions occur inside and, (ii) two bioreactors connected sequentially, where each reaction occurs separately in each reactor. The mathematical models that describe the mentioned configurations are analyzed at steady state, comparing the following criteria: the stability of the processes (stability properties of desired equilibria) and soluble organic matter removal performance (substrate levels at steady states), concluding that separation of the reactions in two bioreactors does not improve the stability of the process nor the soluble organic matter removal capacity, unless the improvement of the growth functions of both microorganism populations is considerably important at the moment of separating them into two reactors.

Enhanced mesophilic anaerobic digestion of waste sludge with the iron nanoparticles addition and kinetic analysis.As the functional material, iron nanoparticles effectively promote anaerobic digestion (AD) process, including the hydrolysis-acidification process and the biogas production. In this study, nano zero-valent iron (nZVI) and FeO nanoparticles (FeO NPs) were added to AD reactors respectively. The AD process was evaluated by the reactors performances, including pH, biogas yields and compositions, as well as the removal ratio of total solids (TS), volatile solids (VS) and soluble chemical oxygen demand (sCOD). Three models (first-order kinetic model, transfer function model and Cone model) were used to explore the kinetics of AD biogas production. The results showed that adding appropriate dose of nZVI or FeO NPs enhanced anaerobic digestibility of sludge. The highest cumulative biogas yield of 140.34 L with 0.5 g L nZVI and 137.13 L with 1 g L FeO NPs were obtained by the 80 days of mesophilic operation, respectively. Cumulative biogas productions of these two reactors were significantly enhanced up to 15.70% and 13.44%. TS removal rates reached >70% in all AD reactors with iron nanoparticles, and the highest sCOD removal rates of nZVI and FeO NPs digesters on the 80th day were 88.22% and 77.63%, respectively. The results of the three-day fermentation experiment and the kinetic parameters showed that the nZVI or FeO NPs enhanced the hydrolysis-acidification process of the AD, which eventually promoted biogas production. The Cone model was satisfied with the experimental results, which could be used to evaluate the kinetics of AD with iron nanoparticles more reasonably.

Assessing the effects of intra-granule precipitation in a full-scale industrial anaerobic digester.In this paper, a multi-scale model is used to assess the multiple mineral precipitation potential in a full-scale anaerobic granular sludge system. Reactor behaviour is analysed under different operational conditions (addition/no addition of reject water from dewatering of lime-stabilized biomass) and periods of time (short/long term). Model predictions suggest that a higher contribution of reject water promotes the risk of intra-granule CaCO formation as a result of the increased quantity of calcium arriving with that stream combined with strong pH gradients within the biofilm. The distribution of these precipitates depends on: (i) reactor height; and (ii) granule size. The study also exposes the potential undesirable effects of the long-term addition of reject water (a decrease in energy recovery of 20% over a 100-day period), caused by loss in biomass activity (due to microbial displacement), and the reduced buffer capacity. This demonstrates how both short-term and long-term operational conditions may affect the formation of precipitates within anaerobic granules, and how it may influence methane production and consequently energy recovery.

2 2 2 2
Effects of microwave, HO/MW and HO/heat pre-treatments on the methane production from wastewater sludges: experimental and modeling approach.The wastewater sludge stabilization by anaerobic digestion is sufficient to reduce the organic content of the sludge, so that it can be safely disposed of without causing odor problems and pathogen contamination, while producing energy in form of biogas. Efficiency of anaerobic digestion in terms of biogas/methane production and organic removal can be enhanced by pretreating the sludge prior to anaerobic digestion. This study compares the effects of microwave (MW), combined hydrogen peroxide/microwave (HO/MW), and combined hydrogen peroxide/heat (HO/heat) pre-treatments on the digestion efficiency and methane production potential of wastewater sludges. The methane productions were also estimated by using modified Gompertz equation through the calculation of the kinetic parameters. The pre-treatments applied to sludge samples speeded up the hydrolysis step and improved the biodegradability of the organics by increasing their solubility. Application of MW, combined HO/MW, and combined HO/heat pre-treatments increased the methane yields by 64%, 38%, and 19%. The modified Gompertz model fitted well to the experimental results (R of 0.999, 0.983, 0.997, and 0.998 for control, MW, HO/MW, and HO/heat, respectively).

Reduction of viable Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis in slurry subjected to anaerobic digestion in biogas plants.Cattle infected with Mycobacterium avium ssp. paratuberculosis (MAP) shed the bacterium in their feces. This may lead to considerable concentrations of MAP in slurry, which has been postulated to contribute to MAP transmission when this slurry is used as fertilizer. For other bacterial species, anaerobic digestion has been shown to reduce bacterial load and to increase the safety of organic waste. Therefore, the objective of this study was to investigate the effects of anaerobic digestion in biogas plants on MAP survival in slurry from 16 dairy farms with a history of MAP infection. Presence of MAP was determined using MAP culture and a commercial MAP IS900 quantitative PCR (qPCR) applied on untreated slurry samples, slurry samples after primary fermentation, and digestate. Unfermented slurry samples from most enrolled farms tested positive for MAP, via both culture and qPCR. After the fermentation process, MAP could no longer be cultured in most samples, with the exception of 2 samples from farms where high numbers of MAP-shedding cows were kept at the time of sampling. A Bayesian binomial model predicted a probability of 93% for a MAP-negative culture result after fermentation. In most samples, MAP DNA was still detectable when using the IS900 qPCR. The probability of a negative result in qPCR was estimated to be 27%. Results of this study indicate that subjecting MAP-positive slurry to anaerobic digestion in biogas plants leads to a reduction of viable MAP below the detection limit; however, MAP DNA remained detectable. It remains undetermined whether MAP DNA detected in fermentation products is a residue of MAP degradation or belongs to viable MAP below the detection limit or in a dormant state. In conclusion, subjecting MAP-positive slurry to anaerobic mesophilic digestion reduces viable MAP concentration below the detection limit. The use of digestion products as fertilizer on pasture and agricultural soils instead of untreated slurry may therefore reduce the risk of MAP transmission.

A compilation and bioenergetic evaluation of syntrophic microbial growth yields in anaerobic digestion.A compilation and analysis of experimentally determined microbial growth yields for syntrophic volatile fatty acid (VFA), lactate oxidisers and methanogens in anaerobic digestion (AD) systems is presented. Only studies based on experimental determinations or sound model-to-data fitting that specifically address parameter identifiability, have been considered. The experimentally determined values are compared and discussed with estimations based on bioenergetic correlations. Only for acetoclastic methanogens the experimentally determined microbial yields appear in good consistency with bioenergetic estimations. For syntrophic microbial groups, the experimetal yield values reported appear much higher than those expected from the low amount of metabolic energy available. These large deviations imply either inaccuracy on the microbial biomass quantification methods or that the syntrophic interspecies electron transfer occurs under mechanisms, or hydrogen equivalent intermediate activities, much below those ever observed in methanogenic environments. In addition, the microbial growth yield values most widely adopted in AD model applications (those reported in the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1)) are even higher than the experimental determinations from literature. It is therefore proposed that microbial growth yield values should be restricted by the maximum harvestable ATP calculated through a detailed bioenergetic pathway analysis. Model simulations with different parameter configurations for different yield sources (default ADM1, experimentally determined and bioenergetically estimated values) displayed low sensitivity of the simulations with respect to the yield values as long as the maximum specific microbial growth rate (μ) remain the same. This suggests that model calibrations could target the accuracy of μ maintaining the bioenergetic upper limit for microbial growth yields.

Bifidobacterium kashiwanohense
Biochemical and structural investigation of taurine:2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase from .Taurine aminotransferases catalyze the first step in taurine catabolism in many taurine-degrading bacteria and play an important role in bacterial taurine metabolism in the mammalian gut. Here, we report the biochemical and structural characterization of a new taurine:2-oxoglutarate aminotransferase from the human gut bacterium  (Toa). Biochemical assays revealed high specificity of Toa for 2-oxoglutarate as the amine acceptor. The crystal structure of Toa in complex with pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP) and glutamate was determined at 2.7 Å resolution. The enzyme forms a homodimer, with each monomer exhibiting a typical type I PLP-enzyme fold and conserved PLP-coordinating residues interacting with the PLP molecule. Two glutamate molecules are bound in sites near the predicted active site and they may occupy a path for substrate entry and product release. Molecular docking reveals a role for active site residues Trp21 and Arg156, conserved in Toa enzymes studied to date, in interacting with the sulfonate group of taurine. Bioinformatics analysis shows that the close homologs of Toa are also present in other anaerobic gut bacteria.

Revealing the correlation of biomethane generation, DOM fluorescence, and microbial community in the mesophilic co-digestion of chicken manure and sheep manure at different mixture ratio.Batch co-digestion tests of chicken manure (CM) and sheep manure (SM) at different ratio (R) were conducted under mesophilic condition (35 °C). Batch kinetic analysis of bioCH production, excitation-emission matrix (EEM) fluorescence of dissolved organic matter (DOM), and microbial community were investigated. The well-fitted modified Gompertz model (R, 0.98-0.99) resulted that the co-digestion markedly improved the methane production rate and shortened the lag phase time. The highest bioCH yield of 219.67 mL/gVS and maximum production rate of 0.378 mL/gVS/h were obtained at an optimum R of 0.4. Additionally, a significant variation of DOM was detected at the R of 0.4 with a consistent degradation of soluble microbial byproduct-like and protein-like organics. The positive synergy effects of co-digestion conspicuously enhanced the bioCH production efficiency. FI and NADH were significantly correlated to R (p < 0.05). Moreover, the correlations among process indicator, EEM-peaks and different environmental parameters were evaluated by Pearson correlation analysis. The high diversity of acetoclastic methanogens and hydrogenotrophic methanogens in the co-digestion improved the stability of process. Graphical Abstract.

Fungal pretreatment and associated kinetics of rice straw hydrolysis to accelerate methane yield from anaerobic digestion.The influence of three different fungal strains-namely, Pleurotus ostreatus (PO), Phanerochaete chrysosposrium (PC), and Ganoderma lucidum (GL)-on pretreatment of rice straw, followed by biochemical methane potential assay was evaluated on the basis of structural (Field Emission Scanning Electron Microscopy, X-ray diffraction etc.) and quantitative (soluble chemical oxygen demand, volatile fatty acids, etc.) analysis. Maximum lignocellulosic degradation was obtained with PC pretreated rice straw (36% more than an untreated sample), followed by PO. Enhancement in the methane yield after 5 weeks of inoculation time was obtained after pretreatment, which was 269.99, 295.91, and 339.31 mL/g VS for PO, GL, and PC, respectively, 1.64-2.22-fold higher than the untreated one. Kinetic modelling of cumulative methane yield showed that modified gompertz model showed the best fit among all analysed models. This study demonstrated the usefulness of fungal species in enhancing the methane yield.

Increasing sulfate levels show a differential impact on synthetic communities comprising different methanogens and a sulfate reducer.Methane-producing microbial communities are of ecological and biotechnological interest. Syntrophic interactions among sulfate reducers and aceto/hydrogenotrophic and obligate hydrogenotrophic methanogens form a key component of these communities, yet, the impact of these different syntrophic routes on methane production and their stability against sulfate availability are not well understood. Here, we construct model synthetic communities using a sulfate reducer and two types of methanogens representing different methanogenesis routes. We find that tri-cultures with both routes increase methane production by almost twofold compared to co-cultures and are stable in the absence of sulfate. With increasing sulfate, system stability and productivity decreases and does so faster in communities with aceto/hydrogenotrophic methanogens despite the continued presence of acetate. We show that this is due to a shift in the metabolism of these methanogens towards co-utilization of hydrogen with acetate. These findings indicate the important role of hydrogen dynamics in the stability and productivity of syntrophic communities.

CNash - A novel parameter predicting cake solids of dewatered digestates.Efficient digestate dewatering is crucial to reduce the volume and transportation cost of solid residues from anaerobic digestion (AD) plants. Large variations in dewatered cake solids have been reported and predictive models are therefore important in design and operation of such plants. However, current predictive models lack validation across several digestion substrates, pre-treatments and full-scale plants. In this study, we showed that thermogravimetric analysis is a reliable prediction model for dewatered cake solids using digestates from 15 commercial full-scale plants. The tested digestates originated from different substrates, with and without the pre-AD thermal hydrolysis process (THP). Moreover, a novel combined physicochemical parameter (C/N•ash) characterizing different digestate blends was identified by multiplying the C/N ratio with ash content of the dried solids. Using samples from 22 full-scale wastewater, food waste and co-waste plants, a linear relationship was found between C/N•ash and predicted cake solids for digestates with and without pre-AD THP. Pre-AD THP improved predicted cake solids by increasing the amount of free water. However, solids characteristics like C/N ratio and ash content had a more profound influence on the predicted cake solids than pre-AD THP and type of dewatering device. Finally, C/N•ash was shown to have a linear relationship to cake solids and reported polymer dose from eight full-scale pre-AD THP plants. In conclusion, we identified the novel parameter C/N•ash which can be used to predict dewatered cake solids regardless of dewatering device and sludge origin.

Biogas Plasticization Coupled Anaerobic Digestion: Anaerobic Pump Calorimetry.This paper presents the quantitative bomb calorimetric high heat values (HHV) for residue samples collected from the Anaerobic Pump (®TAP) and a continuous flow stirred tank reactor (CFSTR) anaerobically digesting a 50:50 wastewater sludge substrate. TAP, an advanced anaerobic digestion (AD) process, features biogas plasticization that greatly increases gas production and leaves a mineralized residual. Measured residue HHVs are compared to HHV estimates from literature empirical relationships. Two empirical formulations, the Meraz thermodynamic formulation (with 7.4% moisture) (Meraz et al. The Chemical Educator, 7(2), 66-70, (2002) and the Channiwala Universal formulation (Channiwala et al. Fuel, 81(8), 1051-1063, (2002), compared favorably (within ± 3% mean value) with the bomb measured HHV values. A stoichiometric ICC description for Ucells is derived. The thermodynamic formation potentials of all measured residues are derived including Ucells. An empirical method was used to calculate the entropy of formation (∆S) for all residues and Ucells. Krevelen plots show residue molar ratios of oxygen and hydrogen to carbon (H/C, O/C) are linearly correlated with HHV and formation potentials (∆G', ∆H', ∆S') with strong statistical coefficients of determination (R). Residue H/C and O/C ratios fell across the peat classification on the biomass coalification diagram. A wide AD methane fermentation zone ≤ 18.6 MJ/kg is identified. The methods and correlation relationships presented enable the computation of accurate HHV and thermodynamic formation potentials without the necessity of direct thermal measurement. These quantitative results confirm that steady state AD of a well-known heterogeneous solid substrate (WWTP sludge) is a linear thermodynamic process.

Kinetic Analysis of Digestate Slow Pyrolysis with the Application of the Master-Plots Method and Independent Parallel Reactions Scheme.The solid fraction obtained by mechanical separation of digestate from anaerobic digestion plants is an attractive feedstock for the pyrolysis process. Especially in the case of digestate obtained from biogas plants fed with energy crops, this can be considered a lignin rich residue. The aim of this study is to investigate the pyrolytic kinetic characteristics of solid digestate. The Starink model-free method has been used for the kinetic analysis of the pyrolysis process. The average Activation Energy value is about 204.1 kJ/mol, with a standard deviation of 25 kJ/mol, which corresponds to the 12% of the average value. The activation energy decreased along with the conversion degree. The variation range of the activation energy is about 99 kJ/mol, this means that the average value cannot be used to statistically represent the whole reaction. The Master-plots method was used for the determination of the kinetic model, obtaining that n-order was the most probable one. On the other hand, the process cannot be modeled with a single-step reaction. For this reason it has been used an independent parallel reactions scheme to model the complete process.

Metaproteome analysis reveals that syntrophy, competition, and phage-host interaction shape microbial communities in biogas plants.In biogas plants, complex microbial communities produce methane and carbon dioxide by anaerobic digestion of biomass. For the characterization of the microbial functional networks, samples of 11 reactors were analyzed using a high-resolution metaproteomics pipeline.
Examined methanogenesis archaeal communities were either mixotrophic or strictly hydrogenotrophic in syntrophy with bacterial acetate oxidizers. Mapping of identified metaproteins with process steps described by the Anaerobic Digestion Model 1 confirmed its main assumptions and also proposed some extensions such as syntrophic acetate oxidation or fermentation of alcohols. Results indicate that the microbial communities were shaped by syntrophy as well as competition and phage-host interactions causing cell lysis. For the families Bacillaceae, Enterobacteriaceae, and Clostridiaceae, the number of phages exceeded up to 20-fold the number of host cells.
Phage-induced cell lysis might slow down the conversion of substrates to biogas, though, it could support the growth of auxotrophic microbes by cycling of nutrients.

ADM1-based mechanistic model for the role of trace elements in anaerobic digestion processes.An original mechanistic model able to describe the fate of trace elements (TE) in anaerobic digestion systems has been synthetized from mass balance equations. The model takes into account the main biochemical and physico-chemical processes affecting TE bioavailability and it is aimed at evaluating the effect that the combination of such processes exerts on the system performance. Five main modules have been introduced: biochemistry, physico-chemistry, sorption, complexation and precipitation. The model is based on mass conservation principles and is formulated as a set of ordinary differential equations for the soluble and particulate components constituting the system. Model applications of two illustrative cases are provided. The first case is based on experimental results and examines the effect of TE depletion in an AD process of food waste (FW). The second case shows the effects of different metal supplements on methane production and biogas composition. The simulation results confirm that the model can fairly be used to predict the effect of TE dynamics and bioavailability, by considering biological, chemical and physicochemical processes in AD environments.

The Archaellum of Methanospirillum hungatei Is Electrically Conductive.Microbially produced electrically conductive protein filaments are of interest because they can function as conduits for long-range biological electron transfer. They also show promise as sustainably produced electronic materials. Until now, microbially produced conductive protein filaments have been reported only for bacteria. We report here that the archaellum of  is electrically conductive. This is the first demonstration that electrically conductive protein filaments have evolved in  Furthermore, the structure of the  archaellum was previously determined (N. Poweleit, P. Ge, H. N. Nguyen, R. R. O. Loo, et al., Nat Microbiol 2:16222, 2016, https://doi.org/10.1038/nmicrobiol.2016.222). Thus, the archaellum of  is the first microbially produced electrically conductive protein filament for which a structure is known. We analyzed the previously published structure and identified a core of tightly packed phenylalanines that is one likely route for electron conductance. The availability of the  archaellum structure is expected to substantially advance mechanistic evaluation of long-range electron transport in microbially produced electrically conductive filaments and to aid in the design of "green" electronic materials that can be microbially produced with renewable feedstocks. Microbially produced electrically conductive protein filaments are a revolutionary, sustainably produced, electronic material with broad potential applications. The design of new protein nanowires based on the known  archaellum structure could be a major advance over the current empirical design of synthetic protein nanowires from electrically conductive bacterial pili. An understanding of the diversity of outer-surface protein structures capable of electron transfer is important for developing models for microbial electrical communication with other cells and minerals in natural anaerobic environments. Extracellular electron exchange is also essential in engineered environments such as bioelectrochemical devices and anaerobic digesters converting wastes to methane. The finding that the archaellum of  is electrically conductive suggests that some archaea might be able to make long-range electrical connections with their external environment.

Innovation hotspots in food waste treatment, biogas, and anaerobic digestion technology: A natural language processing approach.The objective of this study is to apply natural language processing to identifying innovative technology trends related to food waste treatment, biogas, and anaerobic digestion. The methodology used involved analyzing large volumes of text data mined from 3186 patents related to these three fields. Latent Dirichlet Allocation and the perplexity method were used to identify the main topics which the patent corpora were comprised of and which technological concepts were most associated with each topic. In addition, term frequency-inverse document frequency (TF-IDF) was used to gauge the "emergingness" of certain technical concepts across the patent corpora in various years. The key results were as follows: (1) perplexity computations showed that a 20 topic models were feasible for these patent corpora; (2) topics were identified, providing an accurate picture of the patenting landscape in the analyzed fields; (3) TF-IDF analysis on unigrams, bigrams, and trigrams, supplemented with network graph analysis, revealed emerging technology trends in each year. This study has important implications for governments who need to decide where to invest resources in anaerobic food waste treatment.

Integrating anaerobic co-digestion of dairy manure and food waste with cultivation of edible mushrooms for nutrient recovery.State-level policies in the New England region of the United States require diversion of organic materials away from landfills. One management option for food waste is anaerobic co-digestion with dairy manure. In addition to biogas, anaerobic digestion produces separated solid and liquid digestates. Solid digestates in the region are typically recycled as animal bedding before returning to the digester and liquids are used to fertilize local soils. Repeated land application of nutrients can contribute to eutrophication risk over time and alternative models are needed to convert digestates into valuable export products. We tested solid digestates derived from dairy manure and food waste as substrate ingredients in the cultivation of Pleurotus ostreatus. We show these materials can be used to offset non-local substrate ingredients while achieving mushroom yields comparable to commercial recipes. This strategy could help divert nutrients away from land adjacent to digesters and into safe, protein-rich food, while producing useful spent mushroom substrate.

Reconstructing functional networks in the human intestinal tract using synthetic microbiomes.The human intestinal tract harbors one of the most densely populated and open microbial ecosystems. The application of multi-omics approaches has provided insight into a wide array of complex interactions between the various groups of mainly anaerobic colonic microbes as well as the host-microbe dialogue. Integration of multi-omics techniques in cultivation based experiments that vary in complexity from monocultures to synthetic microbial communities identified key metabolic players in the trophic interactions as well as their ecological dynamics. A synergy between these approaches will be of utmost importance to reconstruct the functional interaction networks at the ecosystem level within the human intestinal microbiome. The improved understanding of microbiome functioning at ecosystem level will further aid in developing better predictive models and design of effective microbiome modulation strategies for health benefits.

Microbial catabolism of Porphyra haitanensis polysaccharides by human gut microbiota.This study applied an in vitro fermentation model, whereby the catabolism of Porphyra haitanensis polysaccharides (PHP) was monitored coupled with the variations of microbiota composition and the concentration of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs), so as to assess the effects of PHP on human intestinal microbiota. After 24 h anaerobic incubation, the level of microflora diversity increased significantly, as the microbiome structure was reshaped through promotion of intestinal probiotics proliferation and inhibition of pathogens growth. Besides, the final concentration of total SCFAs increased to 32.32 ± 1.81 mmol/L, and contained high amounts of acetic, propionic and butyric acid. Furthermore, the molecular weight of PHP decreased from 2.623 × 10 g/mol to 2.308 × 10 g/mol. The degree of polymerization of oligosaccharide products ranged from 2 to 9, with the main linkage patterns being 1 → 3 and 1 → 4 linked Galp. The current study provides new insight on the probiotic activity of PHP within the human gastrointestinal tract.

Intestinal Epithelial Cells and the Microbiome Undergo Swift Reprogramming at the Inception of Colonic Citrobacter rodentium Infection.We used the mouse attaching and effacing (A/E) pathogen , which models the human A/E pathogens enteropathogenic  and enterohemorrhagic  (EPEC and EHEC), to temporally resolve intestinal epithelial cell (IEC) responses and changes to the microbiome during  infection. We found the host to be unresponsive during the first 3 days postinfection (DPI), when  resides in the caecum. In contrast, at 4 DPI, the day of colonic colonization, despite only sporadic adhesion to the apex of the crypt, we observed robust upregulation of cell cycle and DNA repair processes, which were associated with expansion of the crypt Ki67-positive replicative zone, and downregulation of multiple metabolic processes (including the tricarboxylic acid [TCA] cycle and oxidative phosphorylation). Moreover, we observed dramatic depletion of goblet and deep crypt secretory cells and an atypical regulation of cholesterol homeostasis in IECs during early infection, with simultaneous upregulation of cholesterol biogenesis (e.g., 3-hydroxy-3-methylglutaryl-coenzyme A reductase [Hmgcr]), import (e.g., low-density lipoprotein receptor [Ldlr]), and efflux (e.g., AbcA1). We also detected interleukin 22 (IL-22) responses in IECs (e.g., Reg3γ) on the day of colonic colonization, which occurred concomitantly with a bloom of commensal Enterobacteriaceae on the mucosal surface. These results unravel a new paradigm in host-pathogen-microbiome interactions, showing for the first time that sensing a small number of pathogenic bacteria triggers swift intrinsic changes to the IEC composition and function, in tandem with significant changes to the mucosa-associated microbiome, which parallel innate immune responses. The mouse pathogen  is a widely used model for colonic infection and has been a major tool in fundamental discoveries in the fields of bacterial pathogenesis and mucosal immunology. Despite extensive studies probing acute  infection, our understanding of the early stages preceding the infection climax remains relatively undetailed. To this end, we apply a multiomics approach to resolve temporal changes to the host and microbiome during early infection. Unexpectedly, we found immediate and dramatic responses occurring on the day of colonic infection, both in the host intestinal epithelial cells and in the microbiome. Our study suggests changes in cholesterol and carbon metabolism in epithelial cells are instantly induced upon pathogen detection in the colon, corresponding with a shift to primarily facultative anaerobes constituting the microbiome. This study contributes to our knowledge of disease pathogenesis and mechanisms of barrier regulation, which is required for development of novel therapeutics targeting the intestinal epithelium.

Analysis of the behavior for operation parameters in the anaerobic digestion process with thermal pretreatment, using fuzzy logic.This article presents a study that identifies the variables with greatest impact on the biogas and methane production over a process with thermal pretreatment, to accelerate anaerobic digestion process in sewage sludge in a water treatment plant, for a poultry processing factory, by using fuzzy logic. The designed fuzzy logic model includes 688 inference rules, with a correlation of 99.3% between prediction data against experimental data, for the biogas variable; and 97% for the methane variable. The predictions of the fuzzy logic model were analyzed with response surface models, and it is concluded that the temperature and operating time variables are mutually determining in the biogas and methane production. Likewise, this research provides a methodology for the design of an expert decision support system that allows to evaluate and optimize a mesophilic anaerobic digestion process through a previous thermal treatment in order to improve the yields of biogas and methane in the treatment of effluent sludge from agroindustry. These results propose to diffuse logic as a reliable tool to make comparisons, and predictions for operation variables management on the treatment of residual sludge with thermal pretreatment on anaerobic digestion.

Anaerobic digestion of hydrothermally-pretreated lignocellulosic biomass: Influence of pretreatment temperatures, inhibitors and soluble organics on methane yield.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of lignocellulosic biomass has received significant attention for bioenergy production in recent years. However, hydrolysis is a rate-limiting in AD of such feedstock. In this study, effects of hydrothermal pretreatment of Napier grass, a model lignocellulosic biomass, on methane yield were examined through series of batch and semi-continuous studies. In batch studies, the highest methane yield of 248.2 ± 5.5 NmL CH/g volatile solids (VS) was obtained from the biomass pretreated at 175 °C, which was 35% higher than that from the unpretreated biomass. The biomass pretreated at 200 °C resulted in formation of 5-hydroxymethylfurfural and furfural, which significantly inhibited methanogenesis. In semi-continuous studies, digester fed with the biomass pretreated at 200 °C at organic loading rate (OLR) of 4 g VS/L.d resulted in digester failure. Thus, OLR/OLR ratio <200 is proposed as an operating criterion for effective operation of digester fed with pretreated biomass slurry.

Evaluation of anaerobic digestion post-treatment options using an integrated model-based approach.The objective of this paper is to present the main results of an engineering-research project dealing with model-based evaluation of waste streams treatment from a biotech company. This has been extensively done in domestic treatment systems, but is equally important, and with different challenges in industrial wastewater treatment. A new set of biological (activated sludge, anaerobic digestion), physicochemical (aqueous phase, precipitation, mass transfer) process models and model interfaces are required to describe removal of organics in an upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor plus either traditional nitrification/denitrification (A) or partial nitritation (PN)/anammox (ANX) (A) processes. Model-based analysis shows that option A requires a decrease in digestion energy recovery (E) in order to have enough organic substrate for subsequent post NO reduction treatment (95 kWh.kg N). In contrast, A in an aerobic granular sludge reactor allows for higher UASB conversion since N removal is carried out autotrophically. The study also reveals that the addition of an aerated pre-treatment unit prior to the PN/ANX (A) reactor promotes COD and HS oxidation, CO and CH stripping, a pH increase (up to 8.5) and a reduction of the risk of intra-granular precipitation as well as sulfide inhibition. Simulations indicate clear differences regarding the microbial distribution/abundance within the biofilm in A when comparing the two operational modes. Final results show the effects of different loading and operational conditions; dissolved oxygen (DO), Total Suspended Solids (TSS), energy recovery (E); on the overall process performance; N removal, aeration energy (E), net energy production (E); using response surfaces, highlighting the need of integrated approaches to avoid sub-optimal outcomes. The study shows the benefits of virtual plant simulation and demonstrates the potential of model-based evaluation when process engineers in industry have to decide between competing options.

How methane yield, crucial parameters and microbial communities respond to the stimulating effect of antibiotics during high solid anaerobic digestion.To comprehensively understand how antibiotics affect anaerobic digestion, their stimulating effects on methane production cannot be ignored; however, few studies have evaluated these effects. This study investigated the stimulating effects of three typical antibiotics (oxytetracycline, sulfadimethoxine, and norfloxacin) on high solid anaerobic digestion. The results showed that 100 mg/L antibiotics exhibited a strong stimulating effect on CH yield; while other external carbon sources had no obvious effects. The stimulating effect was more obvious under low inoculation ratios, which could improve the system processing capacity of feed sludge. Lower lag phases were given by the modified Gompertz model when stimulating effects occurred. The variations of physicochemical parameters and microbial Venn maps both showed that day 5 was a critical point for digestion time. The relative abundance of Methanosarcina was enhanced when the stimulating effect occurred, whereas Methanoculleus decreased. Different microbial characteristics were obtained for different samples from the heat maps.

Transplanting the pathway engineering toolbox to methanogens.Biological methanogenesis evolved early in Earth's history and was likely already a major process by 3.5 Ga. Modern methanogenesis is now a key process in virtually all anaerobic microbial communities, such as marine and lake sediments, wetland and rice soils, and human and cattle digestive tracts. Owing to their long evolution and extensive adaptations to various habitats, methanogens possess enormous metabolic and physiological diversity. Not only does this diversity offers unique opportunities for biotechnology applications, but also reveals their direct impact on the environment, agriculture, and human and animal health. These efforts are facilitated by an advanced genetic toolbox, emerging new molecular tools, and systems-level modelling for methanogens. Further developments and convergence of these technical advancements provide new opportunities for bioengineering methanogens.

Is anaerobic digestion a reliable barrier for deactivation of pathogens in biosludge?As World Health Organization advocates, the global burden of sanitation related disease and access to safely managed sanitation and safely treated wastewater should be monitored strictly. However, the spread of pathogens through various agricultural applications or direct discharge of sewage sludge generated in municipal wastewater treatment plants poses a serious challenge on the environment and public health. Anaerobic digestion (AD), the principal method of stabilizing biosolids, can efficiently and largely deactivate viable pathogens, including parasite, virus, and the pathogens harboring antibiotic resistance genes. This review aims to provide a critical overview regarding the deactivation of sludge-associated pathogens by AD, through which a serious concern on the effectiveness and rationality of AD towards sludge pathogens control was raised. Meanwhile, the underlying deactivation mechanisms and affecting factors were all discussed, with the focus on pathogen-associated modeling, engineering design and technological aspects of AD. Lastly, a matric method incorporating the operating strategy of AD with the risk assessment was proposed for evaluating the reliability of AD-based pathogen deactivation, while the research agenda forward was also outlined.

Modelling non-ideal bio-physical-chemical effects on high-solids anaerobic digestion of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste.This study evaluates the main effects of including 'non-ideal' bio-physical-chemical corrections in high-solids anaerobic digestion (HS-AD) of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW), at total solid (TS) between 10 and 40%. As a novel approach, a simple 'non-ideal' module, accounting for the effects of ionic strength (I) on the main acid-base equilibriums, was coupled to a HS-AD model, to jointly evaluate the effects of 'non-ideality' and the TS content dynamics on the HS-AD bio-physical-chemistry. 'Non-ideality' influenced the pH, concentration of inhibitors (i.e. NH), and liquid-gas transfer (i.e. CO), particularly at higher TS (i.e. ≥ 20%). Meanwhile, fitting the experimental data for batch assays at 15% TS showed that HS-AD of OFMSW might be operated at I ≥ 0.5 M. Therefore, all HS-AD simulations should account for 'non-ideal' corrections, when assessing the main inhibitory mechanisms (i.e. NH buildup and acidification) potentially occurring in HS-AD of OFMSW.

Anaerobic digestion of tobacco stalk: biomethane production performance and kinetic analysis.Tobacco stalk, a common agricultural waste derived from the harvest of tobacco, caused serious environmental pollution in China. In this study, the performance of biomethane production and characteristics of four varieties of tobacco stalk were investigated for the first time. The results showed that the highest cumulative methane yield of 130.2 mL/g-VS was obtained from Nicotiana tabacum L., Yunyan114, which had lower lignin content than other varieties of tobacco stalk. Moreover, different kinetic models were used to describe the biomethane production process, and it was found that the modified Gompertz model was more suitable to simulate the anaerobic digestion (AD) of tobacco stalk. The findings of this study not only showed a feasible method for minimizing the pollution issues of tobacco stalk waste but also gave fundamental information for future AD application.

Single and combined inhibition of Methanosaeta concilii by ammonia, sodium ion and hydrogen sulfide.Single and combined inhibition of lag time λ and specific methanogenic activity R of Methanosaeta concilii by NH, Na and HS were investigated using inhibition tests with a single inhibitor and a 3 full-factorial experiment of NH, Na and HS concentrations (1.5 ≤ total ammonia nitrogen (TAN)/L ≤ 4.5 g, 1 ≤ Na/L ≤ 4.3 g, 14.2 ≤ total hydrogen sulfide sulfur (THSS)/L ≤ 836 mg). All three inhibitors significantly increased λ and reduced R of M. concilii. The half-maximal inhibitory concentrations of NH, Na and HS for M. concilii were 6.4 g TAN/L, 5.2 g Na/L and 1.6 g THSS/L. Partial cubic models adequately approximated the corresponding response surfaces of λ and R from the 3 full-factorial experiment. The inhibitors inhibited R synergistically, but inhibited λ in a complex manner. The combination of NH and Na showed the strongest synergistic inhibition of both λ and R.

Modified anaerobic digestion model No.1 (ADM1) for modeling anaerobic digestion process at different ammonium concentrations.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is an established method for sustainable energy production. Anaerobic digestion model No.1 (ADM1) was used to simulate methane production (MP) and volatile fatty acid (VFA) concentrations at different ammonium concentrations. In accordance with the incomplete description of several biochemical reactions and the omission of several reaction processes, ADM1 was modified with the consideration of acetic acid inhibition and valeric acid existence. ADM1_ac (ADM1 added acetic acid inhibition) could obtain better simulation accuracy of MP (goodness-of-fit value = 0.945), and VFA concentrations (goodness-of-fit values > 0.39) were all higher than ADM1_original, but cannot explain the valeric acid production. ADM1_va (ADM1 added valeric acid existence) could achieve better simulation of valeric acid (achieving a breakthrough of zero), nevertheless the accuracy of propionic and butyric acids was poorer than ADM1_ac with differences between experimental and simulation values were 5%-10% lower. With both factors coordinated, MP and VFA concentrations could be simulated accurately by ADM1_ac_va (ADM1 added acetic acid inhibition and valeric acid existence), with the highest goodness-of-fit values (>0.85). The results of a verification experiment with ADM1_ac_va simulation further indicated that acetic acid inhibition and valeric acid as new component were both important in ADM1. PRACTITIONER POINTS: ADM1_ac could simulate MP and acetate, propionate and butyrate concentrations better. ADM1_va could explain the valerate production during AD of glucose. ADM1_ac_va could simulate AD process quite accurately, with the highest goodness-of-fit values (>0.85). Acetate inhibition and valerate existence were both important and should be considered in ADM1.

Fusobacterium nucleatum
promotes colorectal cancer by inducing Wnt/β-catenin modulator Annexin A1., a Gram-negative oral anaerobe, is a significant contributor to colorectal cancer. Using an  cancer progression model, we discover that  stimulates the growth of colorectal cancer cells without affecting the pre-cancerous adenoma cells. Annexin A1, a previously unrecognized modulator of Wnt/β-catenin signaling, is a key component through which  exerts its stimulatory effect. Annexin A1 is specifically expressed in proliferating colorectal cancer cells and involved in activation of Cyclin D1. Its expression level in colon cancer is a predictor of poor prognosis independent of cancer stage, grade, age, and sex. The FadA adhesin from  up-regulates Annexin A1 expression through E-cadherin. A positive feedback loop between FadA and Annexin A1 is identified in the cancerous cells, absent in the non-cancerous cells. We therefore propose a "two-hit" model in colorectal carcinogenesis, with somatic mutation(s) serving as the first hit, and  as the second hit exacerbating cancer progression after benign cells become cancerous. This model extends the "adenoma-carcinoma" model and identifies microbes such as  as cancer "facilitators".

Anaerobic co-digestion of municipal sewage sludge and fruit/vegetable waste: effect of different mixtures on digester stability and methane yield.The anaerobic co-digestion of fruit and vegetable waste (FVW) and municipal sewage sludge (MSS) is investigated under mesophilic conditions. This was done at a constant hydraulic retention time (HRT) similar to that typically used at waste water treatment plant digesters, 20 days. The effects on digester performance of the FVW:MSS ratio and the organic loading rate (OLR) were examined. Initially the digester was fed with MSS from wastewater treatment plants (WWTP) with an average OLR of 1.03 kg  (m d). The co-digestion of MSS and FVW was performed at various ratios of FVW in the mixture, while increasing the OLRs, from 1.03 to 4.78 kg  (m d). The experimental specific methane production (SMP) was 0.303 m (kg) for MSS and 0.403 m (kg) for FVW as single substrate. This value varied for co-digestion with a maximum of 0.445 m (kg) for a FVW:MSS ratio of 40:60. Alkalinity and pH values remain relatively constant regardless the different FVW:MSS ratios fed. As this ratio increases, the removal of the volatile solids (VS) increased from 38.7% to 82%. The average methane content of digester biogas was about 62-64%.

'Hot topic' - combined energy and process modeling in thermal hydrolysis systems.The thermal hydrolysis process (THP) is applied to enhance biogas production in anaerobic digestion (AD), reduce viscosity for improved mixing and dewatering and to reduce and sterilize cake solids. Large heat demands for steam production rely on dynamic effects like sludge throughput, gas availability and THP process parameters. Here, we propose a combined energy and process model suitable to describe the dynamic behaviour of THP in a full-plant context. The process model addresses interactions of THP with operational conditions covered by the AD model obeying mass continuity. Energy conservation is considered in balancing and converting various energy species dominated by thermal heat and calorific energy. The combined energy and process model was then applied on the THP at Blue Plains advanced WWTP (DC Water) to analyse the process and assess potential energy optimizations. It was found that dynamic effects like mismatched steam production and consumption, temporary gas shortages and underloaded units are responsible for energy inefficiencies with losses in electricity-production up to 29%.

Pretreatment optimisation and kinetics of batch anaerobic digestion of liquidised OFMSW treated with NaOH: Models verification with experimental data.The enormous generation of municipal solid waste (MSW) due to increased urbanization is causing threat to the environment. MSW is a mixed waste and it comprises of organic fraction as the key fraction called organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) along with other fractions. The pretreatment of OFMSW is necessary step to increase the biogas yield. In the present work, NaOH hydrolysis of mechanically liquidised OFMSW was carried out to reduce its complexity and improve the biogas production. Furthermore, hydrolysis parameters were optimised by RSM model for NaOH pretreatment. Optimised conditions achieved from RSM analysis were 0.46 N NaOH loading, 72 h reaction time and 36.05 °C operating temperature. The RSM predicted values of response sCOD and VFA at optimum condition were in good agreement with experimental data signifying the model adequacy. The kinetic of batch anaerobic digestion of OFMSW treated with NaOH at different concentrations and optimised condition had been studied to see the suitability of first order model and modified Gompartz model. The experimental results obtained were best fitted using normalized root mean square error analysis. Biogas production after pretreatment at 0.1, 0.5, 0.9 N NaOH concentration and RSM optimised condition was 369.24, 435.24, 327.84 and 465.67 NL/kg VS, respectively.

Techno-economic analyses of solid-state anaerobic digestion and composting of yard trimmings.Solid-state anaerobic digestion (SS-AD) and composting are two potential alternatives to divert yard trimmings from landfills. This study aimed to evaluate the techno-economic feasibility of commercial-scale SS-AD and composting systems (20,000 metric tons (MT)/year) that received both yard trimmings and liquid AD effluent using a modeling software, SuperPro Designer. Both the SS-AD and composting systems were shown to be economically feasible. While their revenues were comparable ($48/MT), SS-AD with digestate drying showed a higher capital cost ($256/MT vs. $84/MT) but a lower non-facility-dependent operating cost ($11/MT vs. $21/MT) than composting. The payback time, internal rate of return (IRR), and net present value (NPV) were estimated to be ∼10 years, 8%, and $0.2 million, respectively, for SS-AD, and ∼4.9 years, 33%, and $1.8 million, respectively, for composting. Digestate drying was necessary to make SS-AD profitable via the sale of byproduct, but it was also the most energy intensive step, relying on heat recovery to reduce costs. Moreover, the economics of SS-AD were highly improved (NPV $2 million) with financial incentives (i.e. investment tax credits), indicating that incentives were critical to the economic feasibility of current SS-AD systems that utilize lignocellulosic biomass. However, renewable identification numbers (RINs) and renewable energy certificates (RECs) had minor effects. Furthermore, the economics of both systems were most sensitive to plant size, tipping fees, and byproduct/compost price. The results suggest SS-AD may be favored for centralized management while composting for de-centralized management of yard trimmings. Alternative ways to valorize digestate should be evaluated in future studies.

Modeling the fate of organic nitrogen during anaerobic digestion: Development of a bioaccessibility based ADM1.Simulating the fate of nitrogen during anaerobic digestion is required to predict the characteristics of digestates and to improve their exploitation for agricultural uses. The aim of this study was to develop a modified ADM1 model that includes bioaccessibility-based fractionation to accurately simulate the fate of nitrogen during anaerobic digestion. To this end, two complementary approaches were used: (i) changes in the bioaccessibility of protein and non-protein compounds were assessed on eight substrates during anaerobic digestion in batch experiments using the "EPS" fractionation method; (ii) experimental results were used to develop a bio-kinetic model based on anaerobic digestion model n°1. This new model incorporates bioaccessibility-based fractionation in its input state variables. The model was successfully calibrated and model evaluation showed that predicted methane production, ammonium production and changes in protein and non-protein bioaccessibility during anaerobic digestion were accurate.

Development of an interspecies interaction model: An experiment on Clostridium cadaveris and Clostridium sporogenes under anaerobic condition.The specific primer and probe sets for quantifying Clostridium cadaveris and Clostridium sporogenes using a quantitative real-time PCR were designed. Each primer and probe set detected only the target species very specifically. The two species were cultivated in pure and mixed culture in batch mode with glucose as the only carbon source. The designed QPCR sets were used successfully to estimate the biokinetic parameters of each species in pure culture: i.e., maximum specific growth rate μ, half saturation concentration K, growth yield Y, and decay coefficient K. of C. cadaveris and C. sporogenes were 0.311 ± 0.020 and 0.360 ± 0.019 h, 4.241 ± 1.653 and 5.171 ± 1.097 g/L, 0.301 ± 0.065 and 0.199 ± 0.037 10 copies/g, 0.005 ± 0.043 and 0.009 ± 0.025 h, respectively. The effect of interspecific interaction of on substrate consumption rate and microbial growth was evaluated using mixed culture; curve fitting and comparison of coefficients detected increase in substrate consumption rate but decrease in microbial growth rate; these results imply interspecific interaction effect. A new model was of the interspecific interaction was developed, with focus on accuracy, realism, simplicity and biological significance. This interspecific interaction model may be extended to more-complex bioprocesses such as biological wastewater treatment systems and anaerobic digestion.

Distribution characteristics of poly-brominated diphenyl ethers between water and dissolved organic carbon from anaerobic digestate: Effects of digestion conditions.It is becoming increasingly urgent to investigate the partition coefficients (expressed as log K values) of polybrominated diphenyl ethers (PBDEs) in dissolved organic carbon (DOC) present in wastewater. In the current study, after 72 h of equilibration, the concentrations of four common PBDEs were measured in the presence of four DOC solutions from two laboratories and two full-scale anaerobic digestion plants. Sixteen log Ks were determined by calculation and unit conversion. The results for the laboratory samples, such as log Ks for 2,2',4,4',5,5'-hexabromodiphenyl ether being 6.38 and 5.46 at different reaction temperatures during the cultivate procedure, suggest that a thermophilic environment promotes the solubility of PBDEs to a greater extent than mesophilic conditions. DOC composition directly influences the solubility of PBDEs, even at the same cultivating temperature: the highest log Ks for 2,2',4,4',5,6'-hexabromodiphenyl ether were 6.71 and 6.33 in different full-scale plant digestates. A linear regression with an R of 0.9863 was used to construct a model describing the potential relationship between log K and the composition of DOC, which includes proteins, polysaccharides and lipids, and which takes into account the positions of bromine atoms, for use in predicting the log K values of PBDEs in different water systems.

Effects of liquid digestate pretreatment on biogas production for anaerobic digestion of wheat straw.In this study, the effects of liquid digestate pretreatment of wheat straw on its biogas production efficiency and anaerobic digestion were investigated using a laboratory-scale biochemical methane potential test. Scanning electron microscope, X-ray diffraction analysis and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy were used to analyze the changes in main compositions and physico-chemical structure of wheat straw after different pretreatment durations (3 days, 5 days, and 7 days). The results evidenced that liquid digestate pretreatment can dissolve the lignocellulosic structure, which positively promoted anaerobic biogas production. Liquid digestate pretreatment achieved a satisfactory anaerobic digestion efficiency with wheat straw as the substrate. Furthermore, the production of biogas and methane were also found to increase after pretreatment. Thus, it was concluded that a duration of 5-day liquid digestate pretreatment was optimal as it yielded 39.76% more biogas production, and 49.58% more biomethane yield, in 35.71% shorter digestion time (T) as compared to raw wheat straw. The modified Gompertz model was able to explain the kinetic behavior during anaerobic digestion of wheat straw. Based on the aforementioned experimental observations, a comparison between effects of equivalent NH-N concentration of ammonia solution and liquid digestate pretreatment was conducted, which indicated that ammonolysis played crucial role in the enhancement of biogas production process by pretreated liquid digestate.

Optimizing biomethane production of mesophilic chicken manure and sheep manure digestion: Mono-digestion and co-digestion kinetic investigation, autofluorescence analysis and microbial community assessment.Optimization of mesophilic methane production from Chicken manure (CM) and Sheep manure (SM) at total solid (TS) of 8% and 1.6% were obtained by sequence tests in mono-digestion. However, the positive synergy of co-digestion with an optimum CM/SM of 2.5 (310 mLCH/gVS) resulted in a high hydrolytic capacity and methane production. The modified Gompertz model (R > 0.98) and modified Aiba model (R > 0.88) illustrated co-digestion significantly improved the methane generation rate with strong ammonia tolerance. Dissolved Organic Matter (DOM) variation in response to the metabolic rate of microbial community illustrated that the SMP-like and protein-like components half-split by EEM-PARAFAC were significantly negative corresponded to bio-methane production. Moreover, the canonical correlation analysis (CCA) resulted a significant difference between the substrate and DOM composition. Potential functional metabolic illustrated statistically significance difference between mono and co-digestion, however, Methanosaeta and Syntrophobacter predominated the syntrophic methanogenesis. The constructed complex metabolic cooperation caused the co-digestion stable and high efficiency.

Thermophilic anaerobic digestion of model organic wastes: Evaluation of biomethane production and multiple kinetic models analysis.The main aim of this work was to test various organic wastes, i.e. from a livestock farm, a cattle slaughterhouse and agricultural waste streams, for its ability to produce methane under thermophilic anaerobic digestion (AD) conditions. The stability of the digestion, potential biomethane production and biomethane production rate for each waste were assessed. The highest methane yield (110.83 mL CH/g VS day) was found in the AD of crushed animal carcasses on day 4. The experimental results were analyzed using four kinetic models and it was observed that the Cone model described the biomethane yield as well as the methane production rate of each substrate. The results from this study showed the good potential of model organic wastes to produce biomethane.

Competitive dynamics of anaerobes during long-term biological sulfate reduction process in a UASB reactor.To reveal the long-term competitive dynamics of anaerobes in anaerobic bioreactors with sulfate reduction, a comprehensive structured mathematical model was designed for an extension of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1). Sulfate reduction bacteria (SRB) were categorized into acetogenic-likewise SRB (ASRB) and methanogenic-likewise SRB (MSRB). Experimental data from 329 days of continuous operation of a laboratory-scale upflow anaerobic sludge bed (UASB) reactor was used for model calibration and validation. Results show that the model has a good agreement with experimental data and that three stages including the MPA dominant, stalemate and SRB dominant stages were clearly appeared throughout the whole competition period. The model was capable of predicting the long-term dynamic competition of sulfidogens and methanogens for electrons. This could explain a long-term of over 200 days needed for the SRB out-competing the MPA, and support speculation that the SRB could finally out-compete both the AcB and the MPA.

Polyvinyl Chloride Microplastics Affect Methane Production from the Anaerobic Digestion of Waste Activated Sludge through Leaching Toxic Bisphenol-A.The retention of polyvinyl chloride (PVC) microplastics in sewage sludge during wastewater treatment raises concerns. However, the effects of PVC microplastics on methane production from anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge (WAS) have never been documented. In this work, the effects of PVC microplastics (1 mm, 10-60 particles/g TS) on anaerobic methane production from WAS were investigated. The presence of 10 particles/g TS of PVC microplastics significantly ( P = 0.041) increased methane production by 5.9 ± 0.1%, but higher levels of PVC microplastics (i.e., 20, 40, and 60 particles/g TS) inhibited methane production to 90.6 ± 0.3%, 80.5 ± 0.1%, and 75.8 ± 0.2% of the control, respectively. Model-based analysis indicated that PVC microplastics at >20 particles/g TS decreased both methane potential (B) and hydrolysis coefficient (k) of WAS. The mechanistic studies showed that bisphenol A (BPA) leaching from PVC microplastics was the primary reason for the decreased methane production, causing significant ( P = 0.037, 0.01, 0.004) inhibitory effects on the hydrolysis-acidification process. The long-term effects of PVC microplastics revealed that the microbial community was shifted in the direction against hydrolysis-acidification and methanation. In conclusion, PVC microplastic caused negative effects on WAS anaerobic digestion through leaching the toxic BPA.

Mechanical pretreatment of lignocelluloses for enhanced biogas production: Methane yield prediction from biomass structural components.In this study, mechanical pretreatment was applied to six different lignocelluloses in two different treatment phases and the prediction of their methane yield was done from biomass chemical composition. Physicochemical, proximate and microbial analyses were carried out on both pretreated and untreated biomass using standard methods. Mechanical pretreatments caused the breakdown of structural materials in all the used biomass which was characterized by reduction of the lagging time during anaerobic digestion and the subsequent increase in methane yield up to 22%. The different loading rate of biomass had no effect on the overall methane yield increase. Both single and multiple linear regressions models were used in order to correlate the chemical composition of the biomass with their methane potentials and a fairly high correlation (R = 0.63) was obtained. The study also showed that the pretreatments are economically feasible. Therefore, its further application to other biomass is encouraged.

Ensiling fermentation reveals pre-treatment effects for anaerobic digestion of sugarcane biomass: An assessment of ensiling additives on methane potential.Ensiling of sugarcane trash (SCT) and sugarcane stalks (SCS) was studied to assess the effects of molasses (MOL) and lactic acid bacteria (LAB) inoculant on methane potential. The experiment was run for 70 days and monitoring parameters were analyzed at days 0, 5, 15 and 70. Biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests performed with fresh and ensiled material at day 70 showed an increase in methane potential by 24.0%, 23.4%, 1.7% and 71.1% for SCS, SCT, SCT and SCT, respectively. Such improved performance is explained by the formation of organic acids (mostly acetate and lactate) which were able to decrease the pH of the silages from 5.7-5.9 to 3.8-4.2 for all SCT treatments and from 5.9 up to 3.4 for SCS treatment. Thus, the ensiling process provided similar effects to a pre-treatment at low acid concentrations, which in turn improved the digestibility of the cellulosic biomass for methane production.

Assessment of the effect of drying temperature and composition on the biochemical methane potential of in-house dried household food waste.Household food waste management and treatment has been recognised as a significant issue worldwide and at a European Union level. Source-separation of household food waste following drying at source presents a viable solution to this problem. The present research aims at investigating the effect of drying of model household food waste at different temperatures (i.e. 63 ±3 °C and 83 ±3 °C) on its biochemical methane potential. The drying process was carried out using a prototype household waste dryer. The model sample consisted of 77%w/w vegetables and fruits (48%w/w and 29%w/w, respectively), 12%w/w pasta/rice, 6%w/w meat and fish, 3%w/w bread and bakery and 2%w/w dairy. Moreover, drying at the same temperatures was applied for two household food wastes samples with different composition, in order to assess the influence of the samples' composition on both the drying process and the methane generation. For all temperatures used, the higher %w/w mass reduction was observed for model waste (MD) (67.39%w/w and 75.79%w/w for 63 °C and 83 °C, respectively), then for rich-in-protein content (PRO) (66.18%w/w and 69.73%w/w for 63 °C and 83 °C, respectively) and finally for rich-in-fat content (FAT) samples (54.35%w/w and 66.31%w/w for 63 °C and 83 °C, respectively), which confirmed the effectiveness of the drying process. The biochemical methane potential experiments have confirmed that the substrate produced the highest methane yields was the FAT, producing 524.25 ±2.86 L CH4 kg volatile solids.

RedCom: A strategy for reduced metabolic modeling of complex microbial communities and its application for analyzing experimental datasets from anaerobic digestion.Constraint-based modeling (CBM) is increasingly used to analyze the metabolism of complex microbial communities involved in ecology, biomedicine, and various biotechnological processes. While CBM is an established framework for studying the metabolism of single species with linear stoichiometric models, CBM of communities with balanced growth is more complicated, not only due to the larger size of the multi-species metabolic network but also because of the bilinear nature of the resulting community models. Moreover, the solution space of these community models often contains biologically unrealistic solutions, which, even with model linearization and under application of certain objective functions, cannot easily be excluded. Here we present RedCom, a new approach to build reduced community models in which the metabolisms of the participating organisms are represented by net conversions computed from the respective single-species networks. By discarding (single-species) net conversions that violate a minimality criterion in the exchange fluxes, it is ensured that unrealistic solutions in the community model are excluded where a species altruistically synthesizes large amounts of byproducts (instead of biomass) to fulfill the requirements of other species. We employed the RedCom approach for modeling communities of up to nine organisms involved in typical degradation steps of anaerobic digestion in biogas plants. Compared to full (bilinear and linearized) community models, we found that the reduced community models obtained with RedCom are not only much smaller but allow, also in the largest model with nine species, extensive calculations required to fully characterize the solution space and to reveal key properties of communities with maximum methane yield and production rates. Furthermore, the predictive power of the reduced community models is significantly larger because they predict much smaller ranges of feasible community compositions and exchange fluxes still being consistent with measurements obtained from enrichment cultures. For an enrichment culture for growth on ethanol, we also used metaproteomic data to further constrain the solution space of the community models. Both model and proteomic data indicated a dominance of acetoclastic methanogens (Methanosarcinales) and Desulfovibrionales being the least abundant group in this microbial community.

Anaerobic co-digestion of industrial landfill leachate and glycerin: methanogenic potential, organic matter removal and process optimization.The objective of this study was to evaluate the performance of the anaerobic co-digestion of different concentrations of industrial landfill leachate associated with crude residual glycerin, in relation to the methanogenic potential, COD removal, accumulated methane production, the effects of the factors (food/microorganism ratio and percentage of glycerin added to the leachate) and their interactions on kinetic parameters of methane production (CH) using the modified Gompertz model. Co-digestion tests were carried out in bench scale (400 mL of useful volume) under batch mode at 30 ± 1°C during 30-day incubation of anaerobic sewage sludge as inoculum. The parameters glycerin addition to the leachate (v/v) (0%, 1.5%, 5%, 8.5% and 10%) and / ratio (0.3, 0.5, 1, 1.5 and 1.7) were investigated using Central Composite Rotational Design method (CCRD). The results indicated significant effect to the response variables: methanogenic potential, COD removal, accumulated production of CH and maximum estimated production of CH, considering a confidence interval of 95% ( < .05). The ideal mixture of 95.13% of leachate with 4.87% of raw glycerin was obtained by desirability test to F/M of 1.61 gCOD of substrate per gVSS (volatile suspended solids) of sludge. Methanogenic potential was 0.19 LCH gTVS , and the average removal of COD was 92%, resulting in accumulated production and maximum estimated production of CH of 74 and 80 mL, respectively. It was noted that the process of co-digestion of the industrial landfill leachate with the crude residual glycerin is promising, due to is potential of complementing and balancing organic materials, nutrients and other components that influence the biological process.  AN: ammoniacal nitrogen; BMP: biochemical methane potential; CCRD: central composite rotational design; COD: chemical oxygen demand; / ratio: food/microorganism ratio; FSS: fixed suspended solids; NTP: normal temperature and pressure; TSS: total suspended solids; TA: total alkalinity; TFS: total fixed solids; TKN: total Kjeldahl nitrogen; TP: total phosphorus; TS: total solids; TVA: total volatile acids; TVS: total volatile solids; VSS: volatile suspended solids; WWTP: wastewater treatment plant.

Non-airtight fermentation of sugar beet pulp with anaerobically digested dairy manure to provide acid-rich hydrolysate for mixotrophic microalgae cultivation.Non-airtight fermentation of lignocellulosic agricultural residues with animal wastes is an emerging pretreatment method to produce acid-rich substrates in two-phase anaerobic digestion. Acid-rich hydrolysate could be an excellent feedstock for cultivating microalgae, therefore, the feasibility of a two-step process combining non-airtight fermentation of sugar beet pulp with anaerobically digested dairy manure and mixotrophic microalgae species Chlorella cultivation in the hydrolysate was explored in this study. The hydrolysis and acidification process of 8-day non-airtight fermentation produced up to 8.1 g/L volatile fatty acids under mesophilic condition. Microalgal growths in diluted hydrolysates were compared with that in diluted digested dairy manure (DDM) as a control using experimental data and fitted logistic models. Chlorella grown in the 10-fold diluted DDM showed an exponential decay, while Chlorella cultured in the 3-fold diluted hydrolysate demonstrated the best performance in terms of biomass density, which reached 2.17 g/L within a short period of time.

Oat bran, but not its isolated bioactive β-glucans or polyphenols, have a bifidogenic effect in an in vitro fermentation model of the gut microbiota.Wholegrain oats are known to modulate the human gut microbiota and have prebiotic properties (increase the growth of some health-promoting bacterial genera within the colon). Research to date mainly attributes these effects to the fibre content; however, oat is also a rich dietary source of polyphenols, which may contribute to the positive modulation of gut microbiota. In vitro anaerobic batch-culture experiments were performed over 24 h to evaluate the impact of two different doses (1 and 3 % (w/v)) of oat bran, matched concentrations of β-glucan extract or polyphenol mix, on the human faecal microbiota composition using 16S RNA gene sequencing and SCFA analysis. Supplementation with oats increased the abundance of Proteobacteria (P &lt;0·01) at 10 h, Bacteroidetes (P &lt;0·05) at 24 h and concentrations of acetic and propionic acid increased at 10 and 24 h compared with the NC. Fermentation of the 1 % (w/v) oat bran resulted in significant increase in SCFA production at 24 h (86 (sd 27) v. 28 (sd 5) mm; P &lt;0·05) and a bifidogenic effect, increasing the relative abundance of Bifidobacterium unassigned at 10 h and Bifidobacterium adolescentis (P &lt;0·05) at 10 and 24 h compared with NC. Considering the β-glucan treatment induced an increase in the phylum Bacteroidetes at 24 h, it explains the Bacteriodetes effects of oats as a food matrix. The polyphenol mix induced an increase in Enterobacteriaceae family at 24 h. In conclusion, in this study, we found that oats increased bifidobacteria, acetic acid and propionic acid, and this is mediated by the synergy of all oat compounds within the complex food matrix, rather than its main bioactive β-glucan or polyphenols. Thus, oats as a whole food led to the greatest impact on the microbiota.

Viability of Using Glycerin as a Co-substrate in Anaerobic Digestion of Sugarcane Stillage (Vinasse): Effect of Diversified Operational Strategies.Vinasse, from sugar and ethanol production, stands out as one of the most problematic agroindustry wastes due to its high chemical oxygen demand, large production volume, and recalcitrant compounds. Therefore, the viability of using glycerin as a co-substrate in vinasse anaerobic digestion was tested, to increase process efficiency and biogas productivity. The effect of feeding strategy, influent concentration, cycle length, and temperature were assessed to optimize methane production. Glycerin (1.53% v/v) proved to be a good co-substrate since it increased the overall methane production in co-digestion assays. CH productivity enhanced exponentially as influent concentration increased, but when temperature was increased to 35 °C, biogas production was impaired. The highest methane productivity and yield were achieved using fed-batch mode, at 30 °C and at an organic loading rate of 10.1 kg COD m day: 139.32 mol CH m day, 13.86 mol CH kg COD, and 15.30 mol CH kg COD. Methane was predominantly produced through the hydrogenotrophic route. In order to treat all the vinasse produced by a mid-size sugar and ethanol plant, nine reactors with 7263.4 m each would be needed. The energy generated by burning the biogas in boilers would reach approximately 92,000 MW h per season and could save up to US$ 240,000.00 per month in diesel oil demand.

Medium Chain Carboxylic Acids from Complex Organic Feedstocks by Mixed Culture Fermentation.Environmental pressures caused by population growth and consumerism require the development of resource recovery from waste, hence a circular economy approach. The production of chemicals and fuels from organic waste using mixed microbial cultures (MMC) has become promising. MMC use the synergy of bio-catalytic activities from different microorganisms to transform complex organic feedstock, such as by-products from food production and food waste. In the absence of oxygen, the feedstock can be converted into biogas through the established anaerobic digestion (AD) approach. The potential of MMC has shifted to production of intermediate AD compounds as precursors for renewable chemicals. A particular set of anaerobic pathways in MMC fermentation, known as chain elongation, can occur under specific conditions producing medium chain carboxylic acids (MCCAs) with higher value than biogas and broader applicability. This review introduces the chain elongation pathway and other bio-reactions occurring during MMC fermentation. We present an overview of the complex feedstocks used, and pinpoint the main operational parameters for MCCAs production such as temperature, pH, loading rates, inoculum, head space composition, and reactor design. The review evaluates the key findings of MCCA production using MMC, and concludes by identifying critical research targets to drive forward this promising technology as a valorisation method for complex organic waste.

Co-digestion of Laminaria digitata with cattle manure: A unimodel simulation study of both batch and continuous experiments.This work investigated the thermophilic (55 °C) co-digestion performance both in batch and continuous mode operation. The biochemical methane potentials of L. digitata and cattle manure were 308 ± 24 and 203 ± 33 mL CH/g VS, respectively. The optimum co-digestion feedstock ratio was found to be 80% macroalgae: 20% manure on a volatile solids basis, which produced 290 ± 19 mL CH/g VS under long-term and stable continuous operation at an organic loading rate of 2 g VS/L/d and hydraulic retention time of 15 days. Simulations of the batch and continuous experiments were, for the first time, carried out using an integrated anaerobic bioconversion model without structural modifications. Close fits between measured and simulated data provided mutual confirmation of experimental reliability and model robustness, and provided new perspectives for the use of the software tool.

ADM1 based mathematical model of trace element complexation in anaerobic digestion processes.In this study, a new model based on anaerobic digestion model no.1 (ADM1) approach has been proposed to simulate trace elements (TEs) complexation, precipitation and their effect on the anaerobic batch methane production. TEs complexation reactions with VFAs and EDTA have been incorporated in an extended ADM1 model which considers TE precipitation/dissolution reactions as well as biodegradation processes. The kinetic model tracks the dynamics of 90 state variables which constitute the components of the proposed anaerobic digestion (AD) model. The incorporation of the complexation reactions required the definition of new inorganic components (EDTA species) and new complexation process rates in the ADM1 framework. The charge balance was modified accordingly to consider the effects of the additional components. The new model is able to predict: a) the effect of TE-EDTA/VFA complexation on methane production, and b) the effect of the initial calcium and magnesium concentrations on process performance.

Control and estimation of anaerobic digestion processes using hydrogen and volatile fatty acids measurements.The anaerobic digestion (AD) technology is widely used in the treatment of waste and wastewater. To ensure the treatment efficiency and to increase the production of biogas, which can be reused as a renewable energy source, a good understanding of the process and tight control are needed. This paper presents an estimation and control scheme, which can be successfully used in the operation of the AD process. The process is simulated by the ADM1 model, the most complex and detailed model developed so far to characterize AD. The controller and the observer, which provides estimates of the unmeasurable variables needed in the computation of the control law, are designed based on a simplified model developed in a previous work. Since it has been shown that hydrogen concentration is an accurate and fast indicator of process stability, it was chosen as controlled variable. Aside from the hydrogen concentration, the only measurement employed by the proposed control structure is the volatile fatty acids concentration. Simulation results prove the effectiveness of the proposed control structure.

Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG treatment improves intestinal permeability and modulates microbiota dysbiosis in an experimental model of sepsis.Decrease of 'health‑benefiting' microbes and increase of pathogenic bacteria (a condition termed dysbiosis) in intensive care unit patients is considered to induce or aggravate sepsis (gut‑origin sepsis). Orally administered probiotics have been effective in the prevention of nosocomial infections. However, the mechanisms of probiotic‑induced anti‑infection and anti‑sepsis remain to be explored. In the present study, 4‑week‑old C57BL6 mice were orally administrated with Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG (LGG) or normal saline (control) 4 weeks prior to cecal ligation and puncture (CLP). A subset of the mice were sacrificed at 24 h post‑CLP, and the others were used for survival studies. Ileum tissues, blood and fecal samples were collected. The survival rate of septic mice pretreated with LGG was significantly improved compared with untreated mice. The levels of inflammatory cytokines were reduced in LGG‑pretreated septic mice. A decrease of colonic proliferation and epithelial tight junctions and an increase of colonic apoptosis were observed in control septic CLP+saline mice. LGG pretreatment reversed the colonic proliferation, apoptosis and expression of tight junction proteins to the levels of the sham group. LGG pretreatment improved the richness and diversity of intestinal microbiota in septic mice. The principal coordinates analysis clustering plots revealed a significant separate clustering in microbiota structure between three groups. Bacteria associated with energy consumption, including Bacteroidetes, with opportunistic infection, including Proteobacteria, Staphylococcaceae and Enterococcaceae, lipopolysaccharide producers, including Enterobacteriaceae, and facultative anaerobes, such as Bacteroidaceae and Erysipelotrichaceae, increased in septic mice. By contrast, bacteria associated with energy harvest, including Firmicutes, intestinal barrier function regulators, including Akkermansia, hepatic function regulators, including Coprococcus and Oscillospira, and obligate anaerobes, including Prevotellaceae, decreased in septic mice. With LGG pretreatment, the sepsis‑induced microbiota dysbiosis was reversed. The present results elucidated the potential mechanism of LGG treatment in sepsis, by improving intestinal permeability and modulating microbiota dysbiosis.

Clostridium difficile
Nonsteroidal Anti-inflammatory Drugs Alter the Microbiota and Exacerbate  Colitis while Dysregulating the Inflammatory Response.infection (CDI) is a major public health threat worldwide. The use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) is associated with enhanced susceptibility to and severity of CDI; however, the mechanisms driving this phenomenon have not been elucidated. NSAIDs alter prostaglandin (PG) metabolism by inhibiting cyclooxygenase (COX) enzymes. Here, we found that treatment with the NSAID indomethacin prior to infection altered the microbiota and dramatically increased mortality and the intestinal pathology associated with CDI in mice. We demonstrated that in -infected animals, indomethacin treatment led to PG deregulation, an altered proinflammatory transcriptional and protein profile, and perturbed epithelial cell junctions. These effects were paralleled by increased recruitment of intestinal neutrophils and CD4 cells and also by a perturbation of the gut microbiota. Together, these data implicate NSAIDs in the disruption of protective COX-mediated PG production during CDI, resulting in altered epithelial integrity and associated immune responses. infection (CDI) is a spore-forming anaerobic bacterium and leading cause of antibiotic-associated colitis. Epidemiological data suggest that use of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) increases the risk for CDI in humans, a potentially important observation given the widespread use of NSAIDs. Prior studies in rodent models of CDI found that NSAID exposure following infection increases the severity of CDI, but mechanisms to explain this are lacking. Here we present new data from a mouse model of antibiotic-associated CDI suggesting that brief NSAID exposure prior to CDI increases the severity of the infectious colitis. These data shed new light on potential mechanisms linking NSAID use to worsened CDI, including drug-induced disturbances to the gut microbiome and colonic epithelial integrity. Studies were limited to a single NSAID (indomethacin), so future studies are needed to assess the generalizability of our findings and to establish a direct link to the human condition.

Salmonella
Host-Derived Metabolites Modulate Transcription of  Genes Involved in l-Lactate Utilization during Gut Colonization.During  serovar Typhimurium infection, host inflammation alters the metabolic environment of the gut lumen to favor the outgrowth of the pathogen at the expense of the microbiota. Inflammation-driven changes in host cell metabolism lead to the release of l-lactate and molecular oxygen from the tissue into the gut lumen.  utilizes lactate as an electron donor in conjunction with oxygen as the terminal electron acceptor to support gut colonization. Here, we investigated transcriptional regulation of the respiratory l-lactate dehydrogenase LldD  and in mouse models of  infection. The two-component system ArcAB repressed transcription of l-lactate utilization genes under anaerobic conditions  The ArcAB-mediated repression of  transcription was relieved under microaerobic conditions. Transcription of  was induced by l-lactate but not d-lactate. A mutant lacking the regulatory protein LldR failed to induce  transcription in response to l-lactate. Furthermore, the  mutant exhibited reduced transcription of l-lactate utilization genes and impaired fitness in murine models of infection. These data provide evidence that the host-derived metabolites oxygen and l-lactate serve as cues for  to regulate lactate oxidation metabolism on a transcriptional level.

Fate of antibiotic resistance genes during anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge: Role of solids retention times in different configurations.In this study, three anaerobic digestion experiments were established to investigate the effects of solids retention times (SRT) on the fate of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) including anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge (CK), one-stage anaerobic digestion of microwave pretreatment sludge (MW) and two-stage anaerobic digestion of microwave pretreatment sludge (Acid stage and CH stage). The response of ARGs to the SRT varied significantly from ARG types and reactor configurations. Shorter SRT could avail the ARGs reduction for CK and two-stage digestion, while MW need longer SRT for the ARGs reduction. Concerning the variance of microbial community caused by reactor configurations, the role of SRT was limited. The partial redundancy analysis and structural equation models analysis indicated that the role of SRT on the ARGs fate could be attributed the most to the co-selection from heavy metals.

Anaerobic treatment of residuals from tanks transporting food and fodder.The anaerobic digestion of wastewater from the cleaning of tank cars transporting food and fodder was investigated in both bench and pilot scales with a single-stage, mesophilic (39 °C), completely mixed process. The promising results lead to the planning and building of a 1200-m full-scale biogas plant at TS-Clean cleaning station in Fahrbinde, Germany. Due to softened water used in the cleaning of the car tanks, the alkalinity in the digester decreased as predicted by the physicochemical model developed for this treatment process. The model showed that 2.4 kg NaHCO/m of wastewater has to be added in order to control digester pH at 7.2 and to maintain the digester alkalinity at 3.1 g CaCO/L. In a laboratory study, the decrease of alkalinity caused a volatile organic acids accumulation and pH drop below the optimal range. In this case, if chemical buffering was not added into the digester, the digester deteriorated. In a 3-year investigation, we confirmed that the strongly polluted WW from the cleaning of tank cars transporting food and fodder is suitable for an anaerobic treatment if the organic loading rate is controlled below 4 kg COD/m/day, digester alkalinity is adjusted by NaHCO, and micronutrients are added despite constant considerable variations in strength and composition of the wastewater. A biogas yield of 35-45 m CH/m of wastewater and a COD elimination of 80-90% were achieved in bench- and pilot-scale experiments and are achieved in the full-scale biogas plant. The full-scale biogas plant is working stable with a biogas yield of 68 m biogas/m of wastewater.

Comparison of the impacts of thermal pretreatment on waste activated sludge using aerobic and anaerobic digestion.A range of thermal pretreatment conditions were used to evaluate the impact of high pressure thermal hydrolysis on the biodegradability of waste activated sludge (WAS) under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. It was found that pretreatment did not increase the overall extent to which WAS could be aerobically biodegraded. Thermal pretreatment transformed the biodegradable fraction of WAS (X) to readily biodegradable chemical oxygen demand (COD) (S) (16.5-34.6%) and slowly biodegradable COD (X) (45.8-63.6%). The impact of pretreatment temperature and duration on WAS COD fractionation did not follow a consistent pattern as changes in COD solubilization did not correspond to the observed generation of S through pretreatment. The pretreated WAS (PWAS) COD fractionations determined from aerobic respirometry were employed in anaerobic modeling and it was concluded that the aerobic and anaerobic biodegradability of PWAS differed. It was found that thermal pretreatment resulted in as much as 50% of the endogenous decay products becoming biodegradable in anaerobic digestion. Overall, it was concluded that the COD fractionation that was developed based upon the aerobic respirometry was valid. However, it was necessary to implement a first-order decay process that reflected changes in the anaerobic biodegradability of the endogenous products through pretreatment.

Modeling the anaerobic co-digestion of solid waste: From batch to semi-continuous simulation.The main purpose of this study was to validate the use of a simple model for forecasting methane production in co-digestion reactors run semi-continuously using substrate data acquired in batch mode. Firstly, seven solid substrates were characterized individually in successive batches to assess their Biochemical Methane Potential (BMP) and kinetic parameters. Afterwards, eight mixtures of two, three or five substrates were processed in semi-continuous mode at an organic loading rate of 1 g VS L d. The experimental methane production was always greater than that calculated from the BMP of each substrate. This result suggested that, endogenous activity needs to be taken into consideration in order to predict total methane production accurately. Near equivalence between experimental and modeled methane production was found after integration in the model of the endogenous activity. The results confirmed the possibility for use of substrate batch data (BMP and kinetics) to predict methane production in semi-continuous operations.

A series of three cases of severe Clostridium difficile infection in Australia associated with a binary toxin producing clade 2 ribotype 251 strain.Three patients with severe Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) caused by an unusual strain of C. difficile, PCR ribotype (RT) 251, were identified in New South Wales, Australia. All cases presented with severe diarrhoea, two had multiple recurrences and one died following a colectomy. C. difficile RT251 strains were isolated by toxigenic culture. Genetic characterisation was performed using techniques including toxin gene profiling, PCR ribotyping, whole genome sequencing (WGS), in-silico multi-locus-sequence-typing (MLST) and core-genome single nucleotide variant (SNV) analyses. Antimicrobial susceptibility was determined using an agar incorporation method. In vitro toxin production was confirmed by Vero cell cytotoxicity assay and pathogenicity was assessed in a murine model of CDI. All RT251 isolates contained toxin A (tcdA), toxin B (tcdB) and binary toxin (cdtA and cdtB) genes. Core-genome analyses revealed the RT251 strains were clonal, with 0-5 SNVs between isolates. WGS and MLST clustered RT251 in the same evolutionary clade (clade 2) as RT027. Despite comparatively lower levels of in vitro toxin production, in the murine model RT251 infection resembled RT027 infection. Mice showed marked weight loss, severe disease within 48 h post-infection and death. All isolates were susceptible to metronidazole and vancomycin. Our observations suggest C. difficile RT251 causes severe disease and emphasise the importance of ongoing surveillance for new and emerging strains of C. difficile with enhanced virulence.

Biomethane from Short Rotation Forestry and Microalgal Open Ponds: System Modeling and Life Cycle Assessment.Gasification of Short Rotation Forestry (SRF) poplar wood chips and anaerobic digestion of the microalga Chlorella vulgaris have been analyzed as alternative supply chains for the production of biomethane. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) was performed from the biomass cultivation to the upgrading stages. Process simulation of gasification and upgrading was carried out, environmental impacts of the entire supply chains have been estimated and discussed. The highest CO removal has been reached by absorption on monoethanolamine. Electricity requirements heavily affect the SRF chain, while productions of carbon dioxide and fertilizers are the main sources of impact of the microalgae cultivation. The recycle of non-absorbed fertilizers, as well as integration of microalgae digestion in wastewater plants, are recommended. Capture and re-injection of the CO lost during the upgrading stages would result, simultaneously, in an 8.53% reduction of the atmospheric emission, and in a minor demand to promote algal growth.

Modelling anaerobic, aerobic and partial nitritation-anammox granular sludge reactors - A review.Wastewater treatment processes with granular sludge are compact and are becoming increasingly popular. Interest has been accompanied by the development of mathematical models. This contribution simultaneously reviews available models in the scientific literature for anaerobic, aerobic and partial nitritation-anammox granular sludge reactors because they comprise common phenomena (e.g. liquid, gas and granule transport) and thus pose similar challenges. Many of the publications were found to have no clearly defined goal. The importance of a goal is stressed because it determines the appropriate model complexity and helps other potential users to find a suitable model in the vast amount of literature. Secondly, a wide variety was found in the model features. This review explains the chosen modelling assumptions based on the different reactor types and goals wherever possible, but some assumptions appeared to be habitual within fields of research, without clear reason. We therefore suggest further research to more clearly define the range of operational conditions and goals for which certain simplifying assumptions can be made, e.g. when intragranule solute transport can be lumped in apparent kinetics and when biofilm models are needed, which explicitly calculate substrate concentration gradients inside granules. Furthermore, research is needed to better mechanistically understand detachment, removal of influent particulate matter and changes in the mixing behaviour inside anaerobic systems, before these phenomena can be adequately incorporated in models. Finally, it is suggested to perform full-scale model validation studies for aerobic and anammox reactors. A spreadsheet in the supplementary information provides an overview of the features in the 167 reviewed models.

Impacts of different biochar types on hydrogen production promotion during fermentative co-digestion of food wastes and dewatered sewage sludge.Pyrolysis and anaerobic digestion are two important strategies for waste management that may be combined for clean energy production. This article investigates the effects of 12 types of biochars derived from four feedstocks at three pyrolysis temperatures on H production via fermentative co-digestion of food wastes and dewatered sewage sludge. The results show that feedstock type and pyrolysis temperature significantly influence biochar properties such as pH, specific surface area and ash contents. Despite the wide range of BET specific surface areas (1.2-511.3 m/g) and ash contents (5.3-73.7(wt%)) of biochars produced, most biochars promoted the VFAs production process and altered the fermentative type from that of acetate type to butyrate type, which seemed to have a higher efficiency for H production. Moreover, fitting of the results to the modified Gompertz model shows that biochar addition shortens the lag time by circa 18-62% and increases the maximum H production rate by circa 18-110%. Furthermore, the biochar derived at higher pyrolysis temperatures enhances H production dramatically over those derived at low temperatures. Principal components analysis demonstrated that the pH buffering capacity of biochar was critical to the promotion of fermentative H production by mitigating the pH decrease caused by VFAs accumulation. Consequently, a sustainable integrated waste management strategy combining pyrolysis and anaerobic digestion is proposed for the efficient treatment of various bio-wastes.

Real-time optimization of the key filtration parameters in an AnMBR: Urban wastewater mono-digestion vs. co-digestion with domestic food waste.This study describes a model-based method for real-time optimization of the key filtration parameters in a submerged anaerobic membrane bioreactor (AnMBR) treating urban wastewater (UWW) and UWW mixed with domestic food waste (FW). The method consists of an initial screening to find out adequate filtration conditions and a real-time optimizer applied to a periodically calibrated filtration model for minimizing the operating costs. The initial screening consists of two statistical analyses: (1) Morris screening method to identify the key filtration parameters; (2) Monte Carlo method to establish suitable initial control inputs values. The operating filtration cost after implementing the control methodology was €0.047 per m (59.6% corresponding to energy costs) when treating UWW and €0.067 per m when adding FW due to higher fouling rates. However, FW increased the biogas productivities, reducing the total costs to €0.035 per m. Average downtimes for reversible fouling removal of 0.4% and 1.6% were obtained, respectively. The results confirm the capability of the proposed control system for optimizing the AnMBR performance when treating both substrates.

Additional reduction of antibiotic resistance genes and human bacterial pathogens via thermophilic aerobic digestion of anaerobically digested sludge.Thermophilic aerobic digestion (TAD) was applied to further reduce ARGs and heavy metal resistance genes (HMRGs) as well as class 1 integrons (intI1) in sludge from anaerobic digestion (AnD). Unlike after AnD, there was no enrichment of ARGs, HMRGs and intI1 after TAD. Residual gene fractions of intI1 and total ARGs (sum of targeted ARGs) were 0.03 and 0.08, respectively. Two kinetic models (Collins-Selleck and first-order) described the decay patterns of targeted genes, revealing rapid removal of intI1 during TAD. After TAD, the relative abundance of human bacterial pathogens (HBPs) and the numbers of HBPs species decreased to approximately 68% and 64% compared to anaerobically digested sludge, respectively. Thus, TAD, subsequent to AnD, may possess high potential for reducing biological risks resulting from ARGs, HMRGs, intI1 and HBPs in sewage sludge.

Characterising the two-phase flow and mixing performance in a gas-mixed anaerobic digester: Importance for scaled-up applications.This study aimed to characterise the gas-liquid flow and mixing behaviour in a gas-mixed anaerobic digester by improving phase interaction modelling using Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD). A 2D axisymmetric model validated with experimental data was set up using an Eulerian-Eulerian method. Uncertainty factors, including bubble size, phase interaction forces and liquid rheology were found to significantly influence the flow field. A more reliable and complete validation was obtained by critical comparison and assessment of the referred experimental data, compared to the models reported in other studies. Additionally, justifiable corrections and predictions in detail were obtained. Mixing was evaluated by trajectory tracking of a large number of particles based on an Euler-Lagrange method. The mixing performance approximated to a laminar-flow reactor (LFR) that distinctly deviated from expected continuous stirred tank reactor (CSTR) design, indicating limited enhancement from the applied gas-sparging strategy in the studied digester. The study shows the importance of a proper phase-interaction description for a reliable hydrodynamic characterisation and mixing evaluation in gas-mixed digesters. Validations, bend to experimental data without a critical assessment, may lead to an inaccurate model for further scaled-up applications.

Berberine Directly Affects the Gut Microbiota to Promote Intestinal Farnesoid X Receptor Activation.Intestinal bacteria play an important role in bile acid metabolism and in the regulation of multiple host metabolic pathways (e.g., lipid and glucose homeostasis) through modulation of intestinal farnesoid X receptor (FXR) activity. Here, we examined the effect of berberine (BBR), a natural plant alkaloid, on intestinal bacteria using in vitro and in vivo models. In vivo, the metabolomic response and changes in mouse intestinal bacterial communities treated with BBR (100 mg/kg) for 5 days were assessed using NMR- and mass spectrometry-based metabolomics coupled with multivariate data analysis. Short-term BBR exposure altered intestinal bacteria by reducing  cluster XIVa and IV and their bile salt hydrolase (BSH) activity, which resulted in the accumulation of taurocholic acid (TCA). The accumulation of TCA was associated with activation of intestinal FXR, which can mediate bile acid, lipid, and glucose metabolism. In vitro, isolated mouse cecal bacteria were incubated with three doses of BBR (0.1, 1, and 10 mg/ml) for 4 hours in an anaerobic chamber. NMR-based metabolomics combined with flow cytometry was used to evaluate the direct physiologic and metabolic effect of BBR on the bacteria. In vitro, BBR exposure not only altered bacterial physiology but also changed bacterial community composition and function, especially reducing BSH-expressing bacteria like  spp. These data suggest that BBR directly affects bacteria to alter bile acid metabolism and activate FXR signaling. These data provide new insights into the link between intestinal bacteria, nuclear receptor signaling, and xenobiotics.

Characteristics of ultra-fine bubble water and its trials on enhanced methane production from waste activated sludge.In this study biogas production efficiency was evaluated by adding ultra-fine bubble water (UFBW) into waste activated sludge (WAS) through anaerobic digestion (AD). Four kinds of gases, i.e. Air, N, CO and H were introduced into tap water (TW) to prepare the UFBW with their properties being first investigated. Results show that hundreds of millions of nanoscale bubbles with the negative zeta potential could be stable in the UFBW for longer than two weeks whereas almost no nanometer bubbles could be detected in the raw TW. As for their impact on subsequent AD of WAS, the cumulative methane production with the addition of UFBW was 14-21% higher than that from the raw TW addition group. Interestingly, the Air-UFBW also could promote the biogas production in this study, which is different from the common understanding of AD, an obligate anaerobic process.

Anaerobic co-digestion of the aqueous phase from hydrothermally treated waste activated sludge with primary sewage sludge. A kinetic study.The mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion of the liquid fraction from hydrothermal carbonization (LFHTC) of dewatered waste activated sludge with primary sewage sludge (PSS) has been studied. Mixtures of different composition (25, 50 and 75% of LFHTC on a chemical oxygen demand (COD) basis), as well as the individual substrates, have been tested using two inocula (flocculent (FS) and granular (GS) sludges). Methane production decreased as the LFHTC/PSS ratio increased, which can be related to the presence of recalcitrant compounds in the LFHTC, such as alkenes, phenolics, and other oxygen- and nitrogen-bearing aromatics hard-to-degrade through anaerobic digestion. Methane yield reached 248 ± 11 mL CH STP/g COD with the GS inoculum and 25% LFHTC. A 74 and a 30% increase of methane production was achieved in the 25% LFHTC runs respect to the obtained in the similar experiments with 100% LFHTC, using the FS and GS inocula, respectively. In those late runs, the COD was reduced more than 86%, with a negligible concentration of total volatile fatty acids. With both inocula, total Kjeldahl nitrogen hydrolysis increased as the LFHTC to PSS mixture ratio decreased, reaching values higher than 79% at the end of the experiments. Methane yield values fitted well the first-order, Cone and Weibull kinetic models for both inocula. Significant differences in the kinetic constant values, ranging from 0.100 to 0.168 d and 0.059-0.068 d, were found with the FS and GS inocula, respectively. The results obtained support the potential integration of HTC of dewatered waste activated sludge in wastewater treatment plants.

Effects of commercial aldehydes from green leaf volatiles (green odour) on rumen microbial population and fermentation profile in an artificial rumen (Rusitec).The effects of plant metabolites on rumen metabolism vary greatly depending on their antimicrobial spectrum and applied doses. In this study, the minimum inhibitory concentrations (MICs) of commercial aldehydes, trans-2-hexenal (T2H), cis-3-hexenal (C3H), trans-2-nonenal (T2N), and trans-2-decenal (T2D) from green leaf volatiles, were tested on rumen bacteria. These compounds were found more effective on Gram-positive rumen bacteria than the Gram-negatives, and C3H was the most effective compound. Then, for 14 days, the in vitro effects of C3H compared with monensin (5 mg/day) on the rumen microbial population and ruminal fermentation at 187.5, 375 and 750 mg/day doses were tested based on the MIC value (500 μg/mL) by using the rumen simulation technique (Rusitec). Supplementation with C3H at 375 mg/day increased the cell numbers of Butyrivibrio fibrisolvens significantly. The addition of C3H at 375 and 750 mg/day doses also increased Streptecoccus bovis cell counts. The use of monensin did not affect the cell numbers of these bacteria. On the other hand, C3H did not change the counts of total bacteria, methanogens, or hyper-ammonia-producing (HAP) bacteria like monensin. The numbers of Ruminococcus albus and Ruminococcus flavefaciens were also stable in the presence of C3H but decreased significantly with the addition of monensin (P < 0.05). Fibrobacter succinogenes, Megasphaera elsdenii, and Selenomonas ruminantium cell counts were not affected by either application. In addition, C3H increased the acetate and methane production along with the acetate-to-propionate ratio at all tested concentrations, unlike monensin. Supplementation with C3H decreased propionate production significantly, except at the 187.5 mg/day dose. Butyrate production increased (P < 0.05) only in the presence of 187.5 and 375 mg/day doses of C3H. Production of total volatile fatty acids (VFA) and dry matter digestibility (DMD) did not change in treatment groups. Also, the total protozoa numbers and ammonia-N concentrations significantly decreased (P < 0.05) in C3H-treated samples, similar to monensin. Although C3H did not have favorable effects on energy efficiency, it suppressed rumen protozoa and mitigated rumen ammonia without adversely effecting ruminal fermentation in all applied doses. Based on the result, C3H has the potential to improve protein utilization in the rumen.

Adjusting the rheological properties of corn-straw slurry to reduce the agitation power consumption in anaerobic digestion.Agitation power consumption (P) in the anaerobic digestion of biogas plants is a major consumer of electric energy. To reduce P by adjusting the rheological properties, in this work, the rheological properties of the corn-straw slurry were studied systematically considering the effects of TS, temperature and particle-size, and P was calculated based on the rheological behavior of the corn-straw slurry. The investigation shows that the corn-straw slurry is a non-Newtonian fluid and exhibit shear-thinning behavior, and the rheological properties can be well described with the power law model. The size-reduction is more effective compared to the option of temperature-increase to improve the agitation power efficiency, and the value of P can be reduced by up to 48.11%. Since the size-reduction can also increase the methane yield, the reduction of the particle-size is a promising option to save P, especially at relatively high TSs and for the thermophilic AD process.

Energy and emission benefits of chicken manure biogas production: a case study.Studies on the production of biogas of different organic materials in an anaerobic environment are being carried out all over the world. The most important parameters in these researches can be listed as raw material potential, production processes, economic analyses, and environmental effects. Chicken manure is one of the raw materials used in biogas production. In this study, in addition to the analysis of biogas and energy production potential from chicken manure, greenhouse gas emissions were analyzed to evaluate environmental effects. In Turkey, chicken manure is not adequately processed and causes environmental pollution. The model biogas plant and potential energy generation were researched in this field study. The pilot plant produces 8.58 million m of biogas per year by processing about 110 thousand tons of waste. It produces 17 GWh/year of electricity and 16 GWh/year of thermal energy, as well as reducing CO greenhouse gas emissions by 13.86 thousand tons/year.

Formate cross-feeding and cooperative metabolic interactions revealed by transcriptomics in co-cultures of acetogenic and amylolytic human colonic bacteria.Interspecies cross-feeding is a fundamental factor in anaerobic microbial communities. In the human colon, formate is produced by many bacterial species but is normally detected only at low concentrations. Ruminococcus bromii produces formate, ethanol and acetate in approximately equal molar proportions in pure culture on RUM-RS medium with 0.2% Novelose resistant starch (RS3) as energy source. Batch co-culturing on starch with the acetogen Blautia hydrogenotrophica however led to the disappearance of formate and increased levels of acetate, which is proposed to occur through the routing of formate via the Wood Ljungdahl pathway of B. hydrogenotrophica. We investigated these inter-species interactions further using RNAseq to examine gene expression in continuous co-cultures of R. bromii and B. hydrogenotrophica. Transcriptome analysis revealed upregulation of B. hydrogenotrophica genes involved in the Wood-Ljungdahl pathway and of a 10 gene cluster responsible for increased branched chain amino acid fermentation in the co-cultures. Cross-feeding between formate-producing species and acetogens may be a significant factor in short chain fatty acid formation in the colon contributing to high rates of acetate production. Transcriptome analysis also indicated competition for the vitamin thiamine and downregulation of dissimilatory sulfate reduction and key redox proteins in R. bromii in the co-cultures, thus demonstrating the wide-ranging consequences of inter-species interactions in this model system.

Escherichia coli
Commensal  Strains Can Promote Intestinal Inflammation via Differential Interleukin-6 Production.is a facultative anaerobic symbiont found widely among mammalian gastrointestinal tracts. Several human studies have reported increased commensal  abundance in the intestine during inflammation; however, host immunological responses toward commensal  during inflammation are not well-defined. Here, we show that colonization of gnotobiotic mice with different genotypes of commensal  isolated from healthy conventional microbiota mice and representing distinct populations of  elicited strain-specific disease phenotypes and immunopathological changes following treatment with the inflammatory stimulus, dextran sulfate sodium (DSS). Production of the inflammatory cytokines GM-CSF, IL-6, and IFN-γ was a hallmark of the severe inflammation induced by  strains of Sequence Type 129 (ST129) and ST375 following DSS administration. In contrast, colonization with  strains ST150 and ST468 caused mild intestinal inflammation and triggered only low levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines, a response indistinguishable from that of -free control mice treated with DSS. The disease development observed with ST129 and ST375 colonization was not directly associated with their abundance in the GI tract as their levels did not change throughout DSS treatment, and no major differences in bacterial burden in the gut were observed among the strains tested. Data mining and  neutralization identified IL-6 as a key cytokine responsible for the observed differential disease severity. Collectively, our results show that the capacity to exacerbate acute intestinal inflammation is a strain-specific trait that can potentially be overcome by blocking the pro-inflammatory immune responses that mediate intestinal tissue damage.

Redox, amino acid, and fatty acid metabolism intersect with bacterial virulence in the gut.The gut metabolic landscape is complex and is influenced by the microbiota, host physiology, and enteric pathogens. Pathogens have to exquisitely monitor the biogeography of the gastrointestinal tract to find a suitable niche for colonization. To dissect the important metabolic pathways that influence virulence of enterohemorrhagic  (EHEC), we conducted a high-throughput screen. We generated a dataset of regulatory pathways that control EHEC virulence expression under anaerobic conditions. This unraveled that the cysteine-responsive regulator, CutR, converges with the YhaO serine import pump and the fatty acid metabolism regulator FadR to optimally control virulence expression in EHEC. CutR activates expression of YhaO to increase activity of the YhaJ transcription factor that has been previously shown to directly activate the EHEC virulence genes. CutR enhances FadL, which is a pump for fatty acids that represses inhibition of virulence expression by FadR, unmasking a feedback mechanism responsive to metabolite fluctuations. Moreover, CutR and FadR also augment murine infection by , which is a murine pathogen extensively employed as a surrogate animal model for EHEC. This high-throughput approach proved to be a powerful tool to map the web of cellular circuits that allows an enteric pathogen to monitor the gut environment and adjust the levels of expression of its virulence repertoire toward successful infection of the host.

On the steady state optimization of the biogas production in a two-stage anaerobic digestion model.In this paper, we study the optimization problem of maximizing biogas production at steady state in a two-stage anaerobic digestion model, which was initially proposed in Bernard et al. (Biotechnol Bioeng 75(4):424-438, 2001). Nominal operating points, consisting of steady states where the involved microorganisms coexist, are usually referred to as desired operational conditions, in particular for maximizing biogas production. Nevertheless, we prove that under some conditions related to input substrate concentrations and microorganism biology, characterized by their growth functions, the optimal steady state can be the extinction of one of the two species. We provide some numerical examples of this situation.

Addressing Global Ruminant Agricultural Challenges Through Understanding the Rumen Microbiome: Past, Present, and Future.The rumen is a complex ecosystem composed of anaerobic bacteria, protozoa, fungi, methanogenic archaea and phages. These microbes interact closely to breakdown plant material that cannot be digested by humans, whilst providing metabolic energy to the host and, in the case of archaea, producing methane. Consequently, ruminants produce meat and milk, which are rich in high-quality protein, vitamins and minerals, and therefore contribute to food security. As the world population is predicted to reach approximately 9.7 billion by 2050, an increase in ruminant production to satisfy global protein demand is necessary, despite limited land availability, and whilst ensuring environmental impact is minimized. Although challenging, these goals can be met, but depend on our understanding of the rumen microbiome. Attempts to manipulate the rumen microbiome to benefit global agricultural challenges have been ongoing for decades with limited success, mostly due to the lack of a detailed understanding of this microbiome and our limited ability to culture most of these microbes outside the rumen. The potential to manipulate the rumen microbiome and meet global livestock challenges through animal breeding and introduction of dietary interventions during early life have recently emerged as promising new technologies. Our inability to phenotype ruminants in a high-throughput manner has also hampered progress, although the recent increase in "omic" data may allow further development of mathematical models and rumen microbial gene biomarkers as proxies. Advances in computational tools, high-throughput sequencing technologies and cultivation-independent "omics" approaches continue to revolutionize our understanding of the rumen microbiome. This will ultimately provide the knowledge framework needed to solve current and future ruminant livestock challenges.

In Vitro
A Simple  Gut Model for Studying the Interaction between Escherichia coli and the Intestinal Commensal Microbiota in Cecal Mucus.A novel  gut model was developed to better understand the interactions between  and the mouse cecal mucus commensal microbiota. The gut model is simple and inexpensive while providing an environment that largely replicates the nonadherent mucus layer of the mouse cecum. 16S rRNA gene profiling of the cecal microbial communities of streptomycin-treated mice colonized with  MG1655 or  Nissle 1917 and the gut model confirmed that the gut model properly reflected the community structure of the mouse intestine. Furthermore, the results from the  gut model mimic the results of published  competitive colonization experiments. The gut model is initiated by the colonization of streptomycin-treated mice, and then the community is serially transferred in microcentrifuge tubes in an anaerobic environment generated in anaerobe jars. The nutritional makeup of the cecum is simulated in the gut model by using a medium consisting of porcine mucin, mouse cecal mucus, HEPES-Hanks buffer (pH 7.2), Cleland's reagent, and agarose. Agarose was found to be essential for maintaining the stability of the microbial community in the gut model. The outcome of competitions between  strains in the  gut model is readily explained by the "restaurant hypothesis" of intestinal colonization. This simple model system potentially can be used to more fully understand how different members of the microbiota interact physically and metabolically during the colonization of the intestinal mucus layer. Both commensal and pathogenic strains of  appear to colonize the mammalian intestine by interacting physically and metabolically with other members of the microbiota in the mucus layer that overlays the cecal and colonic epithelium. However, the use of animal models and the complexity of the mammalian gut make it difficult to isolate experimental variables that might dictate the interactions between  and other members of the microbiota, such as those that are critical for successful colonization. Here, we describe a simple and relatively inexpensive  gut model that largely mimics  conditions and therefore can facilitate the manipulation of experimental variables for studying the interactions of  with the intestinal microbiota.

Modified Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 for modeling methane production from food waste in batch and semi-continuous anaerobic digestions.A modified Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) with optimized kinetic parameters was presented to model methane production in the anaerobic digestion of food waste. Experimental data from batch and semi-continuous fermentations were used to calibrate and verify the model. Modified ADM1 simulation was carried out using AQUASIM 2.0 software. Sensitivity analysis was used to identify and evaluate the most sensitive kinetic parameters during biogas production. The decay constant of microorganisms, the disintegration constant, the hydrolysis constant of carbohydrates, the Monod maximum specific substrate uptake rate, and the half-saturation constants affected biogas production significantly. The optimized values of these parameters were 0.001, 0.16, 3, 1 and 0.23, respectively. Optimization results were validated using batch and semi-continuous experiments. The modified ADM1 well-predicted methane production, with R values for the validation experiments all above 90%. These results can be used as basic data to simulate methane production in full-scale reactors.

Impact of Cross-Contamination Concentrations of Doxycycline Hyclate on the Microbial Ecosystem in an Ex Vivo Model of the Pig's Cecum.Cross-contamination of feed with antibiotics causes pigs to become unintentionally exposed to low concentrations of antibiotics. This study investigates the effect of residues of doxycycline hyclate (DOX) in an ex vivo model of the intestinal tract of pigs, focusing on the microbial community, microbial activity, and the enrichment of resistant bacteria and resistance genes.
The effect of three concentrations DOX were tested; 1 and 4 mg/L correspond to the intestinal concentrations when pigs are fed a compound feed containing 3% of a therapeutic dose, and a reference concentration of 16 mg/L. These were continuously administered to a chemostat, simulating the microbial ecosystem of the pig cecum and inoculated with cecal content of organically grown pigs. The administration of even the lowest DOX concentration caused a significant decrease in bacterial activity, while the microbial community profile appeared to remain unaffected by any of the concentrations. A concentration of 1 mg/L DOX caused minor selection pressure for tetracycline-resistant Escherichia coli but no other groups enumerated with plate cultivation, while 4 mg/L induced major enrichment of tetracycline-resistant E. coli, Enterobacteriaceae and total anaerobes. High abundances of tet(Q), tet(M), tet(W), tet(O), and tet(B) were detected in the inoculum and also before antibiotic administration in the chemostat and did not significantly increase during administration of 1 and 4 mg/L DOX. Only 16 mg/L DOX caused minor enrichments.
Cross-contamination concentrations of doxycycline, as a result of cross-contamination, cause a selection pressure for resistant bacteria and negatively affect microbial activity.

Efficiency, granulation, and bacterial populations related to pollutant removal in an upflow microaerobic sludge reactor treating wastewater with low COD/TN ratio.In this study, a novel upflow microaerobic sludge reactor (UMSR) was constructed to conduct anaerobic digestion of municipal wastewater with low carbon and nitrogen ratio (C/N). Oxygen in the UMSR was supplied by falling water and external recirculation. Excellent nitrogen removal performance was obtained in the UMSR for treating wastewater with low C/N ratio at a temperature of 25 °C and a hydraulic retention time of 24 h. Ammonium and total nitrogen removal efficiencies averaged 92.35% and 90.41%, respectively, and sludge granulation occurred during acclimation. The inferred metabolism of nitrogen removal and ecological positions of functional microbe were integrated into a granule model by scanning electron microscopy. Additionally, the analysis of microbial community indicated that aerobic nitrifying bacteria and heterotrophic bacteria survived on the surface of sludge floc and granules while the anaerobic autotrophic, heterotrophic denitrifying, and anaerobic ammonia oxidation bacteria were present in the inner layer.

Methanobacterium formicicum
as a target rumen methanogen for the development of new methane mitigation interventions: A review.(Methanobacteriaceae family) is an endosymbiotic methanogenic Archaean found in the digestive tracts of ruminants and elsewhere. It has been significantly implicated in global CH emission during enteric fermentation processes. In this review, we discuss current genomic and metabolic aspects of this microorganism for the purpose of the discovery of novel veterinary therapeutics. This microorganism encompasses a typical H scavenging system, which facilitates a metabolic symbiosis across the H producing cellulolytic bacteria and fumarate reducing bacteria. To date, five genome-scale metabolic models (iAF692, iMG746, iMB745, iVS941 and iMM518) have been developed. These metabolic reconstructions revealed the cellular and metabolic behaviors of methanogenic archaea. The characteristics of its symbiotic behavior and metabolic crosstalk with competitive rumen anaerobes support understanding of the physiological function and metabolic fate of shared metabolites in the rumen ecosystem. Thus, systems biological characterization of this microorganism may provide a new insight to realize its metabolic significance for the development of a healthy microbiota in ruminants. An in-depth knowledge of this microorganism may allow us to ensure a long term sustainability of ruminant-based agriculture.

The effect of exposure to high altitude and low oxygen on intestinal microbial communities in mice.This experiment was conducted to investigate the effect of exposure to high altitude and low oxygen on intestinal microbial communities using mice as an animal model. Fecal microbiota from mice housed in a control environment representing 2,200 meters (NC group) above sea level with 16% Oxygen and mice that were placed in a hypobaric chamber representing 5000 meters (HC group) above sea level with 11% Oxygen for 30 days, were analyzed by the HiSeq Illumina sequencing platform. The results showed a significant difference in beta diversity observed between the two groups, while no significant difference was observed in alpha diversity. Compared with the NC group, the relative abundance of class Epsilonproteobacteria, phlym Actinobacteria, class Erysipelotrichia and genus Helicobacter were significantly lower (P<0.05), while the relative abundance of genus Alistipes was increased in the HC group; Phenotypic analysis showed no significant difference in aerobic, anaerobic, facultatively anaerobic, potentially pathogenic, stress tolerant, mobile element, biofilms formation, gram negative and gram positive between HC group and NC group; Functional analysis results showed significant differences in 34 gene functional metabolic pathways (carbohydrate digestion and absorption, energy metabolism, arachidonic acid metabolism, flavonoid biosynthesis, RIG-I-like receptor signaling pathway, etc) between HC group and NC group. Together, these findings suggest that exposure to high altitude and low oxygen had the potential to change the intestinal microbial communities, which potentially may modulate metabolic processes in mice.

Enhancing soluble phosphate concentration in sludge liquor by pressurised anaerobic digestion.Recovery of phosphate from wastewater is challenging, with one of the best opportunities being recovery from sludge anaerobic digestion liquor, as struvite. However, this is limited by the proportion of total phosphorous which is soluble, due to in-digester metal ion precipitation. High-pressure anaerobic digestion may enable enhanced phosphate solubility (and hence recovery potential), without the use of added acid, due to an increased liquid phase CO concentration. This was tested at 2, 4, and 6 bar absolute (bara) vs a 1 bara control reactor, fed with activated sludge. Increased pressure significantly (p = 0.0008), increased the fraction of phosphate that was soluble, ranging from 52% at 1 bara, to 75% at 6 bara. Model based analysis indicated that the main reason for increased solubility was pH depression (down to 6.4 at 6 bara), rather than changes in ion pairing (with carbonates) or increases in ionic activity. However, biological performance was adversely impacted, with a substantial loss in VS and COD destruction (on the order of 5%-10% absolute). No organic acid accumulation was observed. Bacterial and archaeal communities were significantly impacted (p∼0.0003-0.0005), with a shift to specific organisms, including Bacteroidales Rikenellaceae within the bacteria, and a Deep Sea Euryarchaeotal Group at 2 bara, and Methanocellaceae within the archaea at 4 and 6 bara. The work indicates that high-pressure operation is a technically viable option to improve phosphate recovery, and produce a high-methane biogas product, but that the loss of overall conversion needs to be further addressed, possibly through two-stage digestion.

Proof of concept and improvement of a triple chamber biosystem coupling anaerobic digestion, nitrification and mixotrophic endogenous denitrification for organic matter, nitrogen and sulfide removal from domestic sewage.In this study, two versions of a triple chamber biosystem, coupling anaerobic digestion, nitrification and mixotrophic endogenous denitrification (ADNMED), were evaluated and compared. They were designed to maximize the use of endogenous electron donors produced by anaerobic digestion (residual organic matter and sulfide) to abate a portion of the influent nitrogen contained in domestic sewage while removing the inconvenience of effluent sulfide. The first version was able to abate 40% of the influent nitrogen but presented operational and hydrodynamic problems, which resulted in sulfide emissions. A modified second version was proposed, improving the first approach and achieving a nitrogen abatement of more than 60% and a sulfide-free effluent, complying with local emission standards. The results demonstrated that endogenous electron donors produced by anaerobic digestion should not be neglected, and a significant cost reduction in nitrogen removal from domestic sewage could be achieved by exploiting their potential with novel reactor configurations.

Oxygen-dependent distinct expression of hif-1α gene in aerobic and anaerobic tissues of the Amazon Oscar, Astronotus crassipinnis.The aquatic habitats of the Amazon basin present dramatic variation of oxygen level, and, to survive such changes, many aquatic animals developed biochemical and physiological adaptations. The advanced teleost Astronotus crassipinnis (Perciformes) is a fish tolerant to hypoxia and known to endure such naturally variable environments. Hypoxia-Inducible factor-1α (hif-1α) is among the most important and studied genes related to hypoxia-tolerance, maintaining regular cellular function and controlling anaerobic metabolism. In the present work, we studied hif-1α expression and related it to changes in metabolic pathways of Astronotus crassipinnis exposed to 1, 3 and 5 h of hypoxia, followed by 3 h of recovery. The results show that A. crassipinnis depresses aerobic metabolic under hypoxia, with a decrease in glycolysis and oxidative enzyme activities, and increases its anaerobic metabolism with an increase in LDH activity coupled with a decrease in oxygen consumption, which indicates an increase in anaerobic capacity. In addition, the animal differentially regulates hif-1α gene in each tissue studied, with a positive relationship to its metabolic profile, suggesting that hif-1α might be one of the most important induction factors that regulate hypoxia tolerance in this species.

Optimizing the configuration of integrated nutrient and energy recovery treatment trains: A new application of global sensitivity analysis to the generic nutrient recovery model (NRM) library.This paper describes the use of global sensitivity analysis (GSA) for factor prioritization in nutrient recovery model (NRM) applications. The aim was to select the most important factors influencing important NRM model outputs such as biogas production, digestate composition and pH, ammonium sulfate recovery, struvite production, product purity, particle size and density, air and chemical requirements, scaling potential, among others. Factors considered for GSA involve: 1) input waste stream characteristics, 2) process operational factors, and 3) kinetic parameters incorporated in the NRMs. Linear regression analyses on Monte Carlo simulation outputs were performed, and the impact of the standardized regression coefficients on major performance indicators was evaluated. Finally, based on the results, the paper describes the original use of GSA to obtain insight in complex nutrient recovery systems and to propose an optimal nutrient and energy recovery treatment train configuration that maximizes resource recovery and minimizes energy and chemical requirements.

Synergistic co-digestion of wastewater grown algae-bacteria polyculture biomass and cellulose to optimize carbon-to-nitrogen ratio and application of kinetic models to predict anaerobic digestion energy balance.This study investigated enhancing methane production from algal-bacteria biomass by adjusting the C/N ratio through co-digestion with a nitrogen-poor co-substrate - cellulose. A biomethane potential test was used to determine cumulative biogas and methane production for pure and co-digested substrates. Four kinetic models were evaluated for their accuracy describing experimental data. These models were used to estimate the total energy output and net energy ratio (NER) for a scaled AD system. Increasing the algal C/N ratio from 5.7 to 20-30 (optimal algae:cellulose feedstock ratios of 35%:65% and 20%:80%) improved the ultimate methane yield by >10% and the first ten days production by >100%. The modified Gompertz kinetic model demonstrated highest accuracy, predicting that co-digestion improved methane production by reducing the time-lag by ∼50% and increasing rate by ∼35%. The synergistic effects increase the AD system energy efficiency and NER by 30-45%, suggesting potential for substantial enhancements from co-digestion at scale.

Co-digestion of oat straw and cow manure during anaerobic digestion: Stimulative and inhibitory effects on fermentation.Impacts of adding different amounts of cow manure (CM) on the anaerobic digestion (AD) of oat straw (OS) with total solids content (TS) values of 4%, 6%, 8% and 10% was assessed over 50 days using batch experiments. A modified Gompertz model was introduced to predict the methane yield and determine the kinetic parameters. The optimum addition was a 1:2 ratio of CM to the OS added, which resulted in a suitable C/N ratio of 27 and a higher degradation rate of lignocellulose. The best cumulative methane yield of 841.77 mL/g volatile solids added (VS) was 26.64% greater than that of digesting OS alone. In addition, the amount of CM added produced larger effects than that of changes in the TS. However, higher CM concentrations were found to be inhibitory. Clustering analysis could provide significant guidance for demonstrating project process and combining farming and animal husbandry.

Kinetic modelling and synergistic impact evaluation for the anaerobic co-digestion of distillers' grains and food waste by ethanol pre-fermentation.The anaerobic digestion of food waste (FW) often leads to acidification inhibition owing to rapid biodegradation, resulting in system instability. In this study, distillers' grains (DG) and food waste were mixed in accordance with volatile solid (VS) ratios of 0.9:0.1, 0.85:0.15, 0.8:0.2, and 0.7:0.3. The experimental groups adopted yeast to conduct ethanol pre-fermentation and then inoculated sludge to perform anaerobic digestion, while the control groups conducted anaerobic digestion without pre-treatment. Results showed that the experimental groups had lower propionic acid concentrations; higher alkalinities, pH values and methane production rates and shorter stagnation periods than the control groups regardless of the mixing ratio. Specifically, at the DG/FW ratio of 0.7:0.3, compared with the control group, the propionic acid concentration was reduced by 59.6%, the alkalinity was increased by 41.7%. Even under high organic loading, the propionic acid and VFA did not accumulate in the system after ethanol pre-fermentation, and the anaerobic digestion system remained stable. At DG/FW ratios of 0.9:0.1 and 0.85:0.15, a synergistic effect was observed during the co-digestion of DG and FW. And, the synergistic effect of EP was relatively high, especially when the DG/FW ratio was 0.9:0.1, and methane yield increased by 26.8%.

Effects of magnesium chloride on the anaerobic digestion and the implication on forward osmosis membrane bioreactor for sludge anaerobic digestion.This work elucidates the effects of model reversed salt MgCl on methane production in an anaerobic digestion bioreactor treating waste sludge. Along with MgCl concentration being raised stepwise, the methane production was only slightly less than in the control when MgCl was 20 g/L and under, and then suddenly reduced to only about 10 mL/(L·d) at a MgCl concentration of 30 g/L, and finally stopped when the MgCl concentration reached 50 g/L. However, the total relative abundance of methanogens Methanomicrobia and Methanobacteria still accounted for 84.97% of the archaeal community when MgCl was 50 g/L. The high correlation between live/dead cell ratio and methane production suggests that the live/dead cell ratio instead of the inhibition of methanogen might be the major cause for the halt of methane production at a magnesium chloride concentration of 50 g/L.

E. coli
Enterotoxigenic  virulence gene regulation in human infections.Enterotoxigenic  (ETEC) is a global diarrheal pathogen that utilizes adhesins and secreted enterotoxins to cause disease in mammalian hosts. Decades of research on virulence factor regulation in ETEC has revealed a variety of environmental factors that influence gene expression, including bile, pH, bicarbonate, osmolarity, and glucose. However, other hallmarks of the intestinal tract, such as low oxygen availability, have not been examined. Further, determining how ETEC integrates these signals in the complex host environment is challenging. To address this, we characterized ETEC's response to the human host using samples from a controlled human infection model. We found ETEC senses environmental oxygen to globally influence virulence factor expression via the oxygen-sensitive transcriptional regulator fumarate and nitrate reduction (FNR) regulator. In vitro anaerobic growth replicates the in vivo virulence factor expression profile, and deletion of  in ETEC strain H10407 results in a significant increase in expression of all classical virulence factors, including the colonization factor antigen I (CFA/I) adhesin operon and both heat-stable and heat-labile enterotoxins. These data depict a model of ETEC infection where FNR activity can globally influence virulence gene expression, and therefore proximity to the oxygenated zone bordering intestinal epithelial cells likely influences ETEC virulence gene expression in vivo. Outside of the host, ETEC biofilms are associated with seasonal ETEC epidemics, and we find FNR is a regulator of biofilm production. Together these data suggest FNR-dependent oxygen sensing in ETEC has implications for human infection inside and outside of the host.

Effect of digestate disintegration on anaerobic digestion of organic waste.Recently, digestate disintegration gained interest as an alternative strategy to feedstock pretreatment for anaerobic digestion. This study evaluated the effect of three different digestate disintegration methods (hydrogen peroxidation, ozone treatment and ultrasound) on manure digestate, potato waste digestate and mixed organic waste digestate. Lab-scale anaerobic digestion experiments were carried out by adding disintegrated digestate to the related substrate and inoculum with simulated recycle ratios of 0.2 and 0.5. Ultrasound disintegration of potato waste digestate yields 22.5% increase in biogas production. An increase in biogas production was linked to the treated digestate amount and the treatment dosage. First order model was used to investigate the effect of digestate disintegration on the first order reaction rate constant (k). The decrease in k and increase in biogas production were linearly correlated. This correlation was explained by the increased bioavailability of the organic matter and possible negative effects of digestate disintegration on the microorganisms.

2 3 2 3
What kind of effects do FeO and AlO nanoparticles have on anaerobic digestion, inhibition or enhancement?FeO and AlO nanoparticles are widely used in products and find their way to wastewater treatment plants through the contact of water with these products. In this study, impacts of FeO and AlO nanoparticles on methane potential of waste activated sludge (WAS) were investigated by comparing long and short term toxicity test results, modelling and FISH analysis. Methane production from the samples treated with the maximum concentration of FeO nanoparticles decreased 28.9% at the end of the long term BMP test. EC value for BMP test of the FeO nanoparticles was calculated as 901.94 mg/gTS with high coefficient of determination. Methane production from the samples treated with AlO nanoparticles increased up to 14.8% (p > 0.05) at the end of the BMP test. However, short term toxicity tests for FeO and AlO nanoparticles showed no impact on anaerobic digestion of WAS. Kinetic parameters obtained from models and captured FISH images were consistent with these results. Different impacts of nanoparticles on methane production suggested that anaerobic microorganisms can be affected from nanoparticles in various mechanisms. Hydrolysis (k) and overall reaction rates (k) values were determined as 0.0277 and 0.1441 d, respectively for each concentration of AlO nanoparticles and raw WAS. Similarly, methane production from WAS containing 5, 50, 150 and 250 mgFeO/gTS were modeled with same kinetic values. However, k constant was calculated as 0.0149 d for 500 mgFeO/gTS. This means that FeO nanoparticles starting from this concentration inhibited the methanogenic consortium and caused decreased biogas production and spesific methane production rate.

Sanitary effectiveness and biogas yield by anaerobic co-digestion of swine carcasses and manure.The present study evaluated anaerobic co-digestion of swine manure and swine carcasses for biogas yield and inactivation/behaviour of pathogens purpose. Biochemical Methane Production tests were performed with samples containing ratios of 3, 7.5 and 15 kg m . For pathogens inactivation experiments known amounts of model microrganisms (sensitive and resistant) were artificially inoculated in anaerobic reactors at 24°C and 37°C. The addition of carcass resulted in an increase until 119% of biogas yield compared to swine manure mono-digestion. ,  and PCV2 were reduced >3log (24°C or 37°C) during 30 days. At 37°C, MS2 and PhiX-174 were reduced 3log and 1.8log respectively. At 24°C, MS2 reduced 1.5 log and PhiX-174 did not present any decay over 30 days. Considering the most resistant biomarkers pathogens, as bacteriophage, we recommend the swine carcasses pre-treatment, such as high temperatures, for sanitary security.

Creatine-loading preserves intestinal barrier function during organ preservation.We have developed a novel, intraluminal preservation solution that is tailored to the metabolic requirements of the intestine. This organ-specific solution addresses many of the problems associated with low temperature organ storage including energy, oxidative and osmotic stresses. However, conservation of energy levels remains one of the most difficult obstacles to overcome due to the inherent sensitivity of the mucosa to ischemia. Creatine-loading has become a popular and scientifically proven method of augmenting energy reserves in athletes performing anaerobic burst work activities. We hypothesized that if we could develop a method that was able to augment cellular energy levels, the structure and function of the mucosa would be more effectively preserved. The purpose of this study was to determine if creatine-loading is a feasible and effective strategy for preserving the intestine. Our data indicate that creatine loading has significant impact on energy levels during storage with corresponding improvements in mucosal structure and function. Both of our rodent models, a) continuous perfusion for 4 h and b) a single flush with our intraluminal preservation solution supplemented with 50 mM creatine, demonstrated significant improvements in creatine phosphate, ATP, Energy Charge and ATP/AMP following cold storage (P < 0.05). Notably, after 10 h creatine phosphate was 324% greater in Creatine-treated tissues compared to Controls (P < 0.05). Preferential utilization of glutathione in the Creatine group was effective at controlling oxidative injury after 10 h storage (P < 0.05). Improvements in barrier function and electrophysiology with creatine-treatment reflected superior mucosal integrity after 10 h storage; Permeability and Transepithelial resistance measurements remained at fresh tissue values. This was in stark contrast to Control tissues in which permeability rose to >300% of fresh tissue values (P < 0.005) and transepithelial resistance dropped by 95% (P < 0.005). After 10 h storage, Park's grading of histologic injury reflected extensive villus denudation (grade 4) in control tissues compared to healthy tissue (grade 0) in the Creatine group. This study demonstrates that a strategy of creatine supplementation of our intraluminal preservation solution facilitates the preservation of the intestinal mucosa during storage.

ADM1 based mathematical model of trace element precipitation/dissolution in anaerobic digestion processes.Due to the complex biogeochemistry of trace elements (TEs, e.g. Fe, Ni and Co) in anaerobic digestion processes, their role and fate is poorly understood. Challenging, time consuming and low detection limits of analytical procedures necessitate recruitment of mathematical models. A dynamic mathematical model based on anaerobic digestion model no.1 (ADM1) has been proposed to simulate the effect of TEs. New chemical equilibrium association/dissociation and precipitation/dissolution reactions have been implemented to determine TE bioavailability and their effect on anaerobic digestion. The model considers interactions with inorganic carbonate (HCO and CO), phosphate (PO, HPO, HPO) and sulfide (HS and S). The effect of deficiency, activation, inhibition and toxicity of TEs on the biochemical processes has been modelled based on a dose-response type inhibition function. The new model can predict: the dynamics of TEs (among carbonate, sulfide and phosphate); the starvation of TEs; and the effect of initial sulfur-phosphorus ratio in an in-silico batch anaerobic system.

Model-based analysis and optimization of a full-scale industrial high-rate anaerobic bioreactor.The objective of this paper is to present the model-based optimization results of an anaerobic granular sludge internal circulation reactor. The International Water Association Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 extended with phosphorus (P), sulfur (S), and ethanol is used to describe the main biological and physico-chemical processes. The high-rate conditions within the reactor are simulated using a flow + reactor model comprised of a series of continuous stirred tank reactors followed by an ideal total suspended solids separation unit. Following parameter estimation by least squares on the measured data, the model had a relative mean error of 13 and 15% for data set #1 and data set #2, respectively. Response surfaces show that the reactor performance index (a metric combining energy recovery in the form of heat and electricity, as well as chemicals needed for pH control) could be improved by 45% when reactor pH is reduced down to 6.8. Model-based results reveal that influent S does not impose sufficient negative impacts on energy recovery (+5.7%, in MWh/day,+0.20 M€/year when influent S is removed) to warrant the cost of its removal (3.58 M€/year). In fact, the process could handle even higher S loads (ensuring the same degree of conversion) as long as the pH is maintained above 6.8. Nevertheless, a higher S load substantially increases the amount of added NaOH to maintain the desired operational pH (>25%) due to the acidic behavior of HS  . CO  stripping decreases the buffer capacity of the system and hence use of chemicals for pH control. Finally, the paper discusses the possibilities and limitations of the proposed approach, and how the results of this study will be put into practice.

Kinetics and microbial community analysis for hydrogen production using raw grass inoculated with different pretreated mixed culture.In this study, five pretreatment methods (heat shock, acid, base, aeration and gamma radiation) were applied for enriching hydrogen producers from anaerobically digested sludge, aiming to compare their hydrogen fermentation performance using raw ryegrass as substrate. Results showed that various pretreatment methods caused great variations on grass hydrogen fermentation performance. Acid pretreatment was most efficient compared with other tested pretreatment methods, with relevant hydrogen yield of 64.4mL/g dry grass and organics removal of 31.4%. Kinetics results showed that the first-order kinetic model fitted hydrogen evolution better than the modified Gompertz model. Microbiological analysis showed that various pretreatment methods caused great variations on microbial activity and microbial community composition. Clostridium and Enterococcus were two dominant genera, while relative abundances of these two genera varied greatly for different pretreated samples. Difference in microbial activity and microbial community distribution induced by the pretreatment methods might directly cause different ryegrass fermentation performance.

Fecal fermentation products of common bean-derived fiber inhibit C/EBPα and PPARγ expression and lipid accumulation but stimulate PPARδ and UCP2 expression in the adipogenesis of 3T3-L1 cells.Clinical and animal studies have suggested efficacies of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris) consumption on weight loss. Fermentation of common bean-derived dietary fiber by gut microbiota is proposed to mitigate obesity; however, the mechanism of action is unclear. The objective of this study was to investigate whether and how fecal fermentation of common bean-derived dietary fiber impacts adipogenesis in a cell model. Dietary fiber was generated by in vitro digestion of cooked, lyophilized common bean flour, followed by anaerobic fermentation with the use of fresh feces from healthy mice without antibiotics treatment. The murine 3T3-L1 cells were induced to differentiate in the presence of the fermentation products. Treatment of the fecal fermentation products inhibited adipocyte differentiation and lipid accumulation in a dose- and time-dependent manner. The fermentation products decreased (P<.05) protein levels of two key transcription factors for adipogenesis, CCAAT/enhancer binding protein α and peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor γ by 79-92% and 78-90%, respectively, and one of their downstream targets fatty acid binding protein 4 by 49-86% and 63-98% at protein and mRNA levels, respectively, during the time course. In contrast, the fermentation products increased (P<.05) levels of two proteins promoting energy expenditure, peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor δ (71-91%) on days 2 and 4 and mitochondrial uncoupling protein 2 (1.1-1.2 fold) on days 4-8. Altogether, fecal fermentation of dietary fiber derived from in vitro digestion of common bean temporally and dose-dependently inhibits adipogenesis and key adipogenic transactivators, but activates two energy expenditure proteins in 3T3-L1 cells.

Modeling of anaerobic digestion of slaughterhouse wastes after thermal treatment using ADM1.According to the European legislation, thermal treatment of category 2 slaughterhouse by-products at 140 °C, 4-5 bar for 20 min is obligatory for their hygienization prior to disposal. This process is known as "rendering". The product of the rendering process is rich in lipids and proteins making it an appropriate feedstock for biogas plants. The mathematical modeling of biogas production from slaughterhouse wastes after the rendering process has been studied adjusting the anaerobic digestion model (ADM1). For this purpose, two mesophilic (38-39 °C) continuous stirred tank reactors (CSTRs) have been operated in parallel under a hydraulic retention time of 21.5 ± 2.14 d, while the organic load was increased from 50 to 149.6 g COD L. Recirculation of the mixed liquor suspended solids (MLSS) took place in one of the CSTRs, resulting in a different solids' concentration in it. The ADM1 was calibrated by estimating key kinetic parameters, such as the maximum specific consumption rate constant and the half-saturation constants of volatile fatty acids and verified. The degradation kinetics of this type of waste seemed to be faster, as a result of its emulsification through rendering, while the coefficient yields of the acidogens were lower than the default values of ADM1. The structure of the model was proven suitable for predicting the response of both bioreactors under small or medium step transitions, but not for abrupt impulse disturbances in the organic loading rate.

Combinative treatment of phenol-rich retting-pond wastewater by a hybrid upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactor and solar photofenton process.In this study, recalcitrant rich retting-pond wastewater was treated primarily by anaerobic treatment and subsequently treated with a solar photofenton process to remove phenol and organics. The anaerobic treatment was carried out in a granulated laboratory scale hybrid upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactor (HUASBR) with a working volume of 5.9 L. It was operated at different hydraulic retention times (HRT) from 40 to 20 h over a period of 140 days. The optimum HRT of the anaerobic reactor was found to be 30 h, with corresponding chemical oxygen demand (COD) and phenol removal of 60% and 47%, respectively. Primary anaerobically treated wastewater was subjected to secondary solar photofenton treatment which was carried out at pH 3.5. Response surface methodology (RSM) was used to design and optimize the performance of the solar photofenton process. Regression quadratic model describing COD removal efficiency of the solar photofenton process was developed and confirmed by analysis of variance (ANOVA). Optimum parameters of the solar photofenton process were found to be: 4 g/L of fenton as catalysts, 25 mL of hydrogen peroxide, and 30 min of reaction time. After the primary anaerobic treatment, solar photofenton oxidation process removed 94% and 96.58% of COD and phenol, respectively. Integration of anaerobic and solar photofenton treatment resulted in 97.5% and 98.4% removal of COD and phenol, respectively, from retting-pond wastewater.

Cyanide degradation kinetics during anaerobic co-digestion of cassava pulp with pig manure.Anaerobic co-digestion of cassava pulp (CP) and pig manure (PM) under cyanide inhibition conditions was investigated and modeled. Batch experiments were performed with initial cyanide concentrations ranging from 1.5 to 10 mg/L. Cyanide acclimatized sludge from an anaerobic co-digester treating cyanide-containing CP and PM was used as the seed sludge (inoculum). Cyanide degradation during anaerobic digestion consisted of an initial lag phase, followed by a cyanide degradation phase. After a short sludge acclimatization period of less than 3 days, the anaerobic sludge was able to degrade cyanide, indicating that the sludge inhibition due to cyanide was reversible. Cyanide degradation during anaerobic co-digestion of CP and PM followed the first-order kinetics with a rate constant of 0.094 d. Gas evolution during batch anaerobic degradation was modeled using the modified Monod-type kinetics to incorporate cyanide inhibition. The model predicted results yielded a satisfactory fit with the experimental data.

Anaerobic co-digestion of foodwaste with liquid dairy manure or manure digestate: Co-substrate limitation and inhibition.Process instability has been a challenge to anaerobic digestion of foodwaste at higher organic loading rates. Co-digestion is one of the measures to improve stability. This study conducted batch experiments to compare liquid dairy manure and dairy manure digestate as a co-substrate for anaerobic digestion of foodwaste. The batch co-digestion experiments showed a two-stage biogas production process, which could be simulated with a modification of the Gompertz model. The specific biogas yields derived with the two-stage biogas production model was further simulated against the co-substrate ratios with substrate limitation - inhibition models for identifying the optimal co-substrate ratio. The Haldane model was the best to simulate co-substrate limitation - inhibition kinetics in anaerobic co-digestion of foodwaste. A higher ratio of dairy manure could result in co-substrate inhibition to biogas production due to recalcitrance of cellulose and toxicity of lignin and lignin derivatives. Kinetic modeling shows that the optimal volatile solids (VS) ratio of liquid dairy manure is 16.6%, at which the maximum specific methane yield is 0.54 L/g VS. Semi-continuous co-digestion of 88% foodwaste and 12% liquid dairy manure at a hydraulic retention time of 14 d attained 94% of the simulated maximum methane yield. Although co-digestion of foodwaste and manure digestate resulted in lower biogas yields than co-digestion with liquid dairy manure, manure digestate is still an attractive co-substrate that has several operational advantages compared with liquid dairy manure.

Modeling the dynamic performance of full-scale anaerobic primary sludge digester using Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1).Anaerobic digestion is one of the most commonly accepted processes applied for the stabilization and treatment of primary sludge generated in municipal wastewater treatment plants enabling energy recovery via biogas production. Understanding and optimizing anaerobic sludge digesters play a key role in sustainability of wastewater treatment plants. Mathematical modeling of biological treatment systems provides several advantages such as better understanding of biochemical processes, interrelations of different biomass types, and impact of environmental conditions on the treatment plant performance. This research presents the modeling of a full-scale anaerobic sludge digester by implementing Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 with a limited number of monitored parameters. Model calibration was carried out using a long-term data set. The accuracy of the optimized parameter sets was assessed against measured data obtained from the full-scale sludge digester. The model could predict the methane flow and effluent chemical oxygen demand concentration in good agreement with the measured data. Therefore, the validated model can be used to predict full-scale sludge digester performance under dynamic loadings, and to optimize methane production at different operation conditions.

Geobacter
Strains Expressing Poorly Conductive Pili Reveal Constraints on Direct Interspecies Electron Transfer Mechanisms.Cytochrome-to-cytochrome electron transfer and electron transfer along conduits of multiple extracellular magnetite grains are often proposed as strategies for direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) that do not require electrically conductive pili (e-pili). However, physical evidence for these proposed DIET mechanisms has been lacking. To investigate these possibilities further, we constructed  strain Aro-5, in which the wild-type pilin gene was replaced with the  pilin gene that was previously shown to yield poorly conductive pili in  strain Aro-5.  strain Aro-5 did not reduce Fe(III) oxide and produced only low current densities, phenotypes consistent with expression of poorly conductive pili. Like  strain Aro-5,  strain Aro-5 displayed abundant outer surface cytochromes. Cocultures initiated with wild-type  as the electron-donating strain and  strain Aro-5 as the electron-accepting strain grew via DIET. However,  Aro-5/ wild-type cocultures did not. Cocultures initiated with the Aro-5 strains of both species grew only when amended with granular activated carbon (GAC), a conductive material known to be a conduit for DIET. Magnetite could not substitute for GAC. The inability of the two Aro-5 strains to adapt for DIET in the absence of GAC suggests that there are physical constraints on establishing DIET solely through cytochrome-to-cytochrome electron transfer or along chains of magnetite. The finding that DIET is possible with electron-accepting partners that lack highly conductive pili greatly expands the range of potential electron-accepting partners that might participate in DIET. DIET is thought to be an important mechanism for interspecies electron exchange in natural anaerobic soils and sediments in which methane is either produced or consumed, as well as in some photosynthetic mats and anaerobic digesters converting organic wastes to methane. Understanding the potential mechanisms for DIET will not only aid in modeling carbon and electron flow in these geochemically significant environments but will also be helpful for interpreting meta-omic data from as-yet-uncultured microbes in DIET-based communities and for designing strategies to promote DIET in anaerobic digesters. The results demonstrate the need to develop a better understanding of the diversity of types of e-pili in the microbial world to identify potential electron-donating partners for DIET. Novel methods for recovering as-yet-uncultivated microorganisms capable of DIET in culture will be needed to further evaluate whether DIET is possible without e-pili in the absence of conductive materials such as GAC.

Model-based design of a software sensor for real-time diagnosis of the stability conditions in high-rate anaerobic reactors - Full-scale application to Internal Circulation technology.Internal Circulation (IC) anaerobic systems are especially suitable when plant designs that involve both small footprints and high organic loading rates (>25 kg COD m d) are required. However, given that operating anaerobic processes at high organic loads increases their vulnerability to external disturbances, real-time indicators of the stability conditions become particularly pertinent for IC reactors. This paper addresses the design and full-scale validation of a software sensor that uses only feeding flow-rate and biogas flow-rate measurements to classify the operating conditions of the reactor as "strongly", "moderately" or "weakly" stable. A simulation-based procedure was used to design the software sensor and configure its parameters. Then, the performance of the software sensor was tested under real conditions in a full-scale IC reactor of 1679 m installed in a recycled paper mill (RPM).

Supernatant organics from anaerobic digestion after thermal hydrolysis cause direct and/or diffusional activity loss for nitritation and anammox.Treatment of sewage sludge with a thermal hydrolysis process (THP) followed by anaerobic digestion (AD) enables to boost biogas production and minimize residual sludge volumes. However, the reject water can cause inhibition to aerobic and anoxic ammonium-oxidizing bacteria (AerAOB & AnAOB), the two key microbial groups involved in the deammonification process. Firstly, a detailed investigation elucidated the impact of different organic fractions present in THP-AD return liquor on AerAOB and AnAOB activity. For AnAOB, soluble compounds linked to THP conditions and AD performance caused the main inhibition. Direct inhibition by dissolved organics was also observed for AerAOB, but could be overcome by treating the filtrate with extended aerobic or anaerobic incubation or with activated carbon. AerAOB additionally suffered from particulate and colloidal organics limiting the diffusion of substrates. This was resolved by improving the dewatering process through an optimized flocculant polymer dose and/or addition of coagulant polymer to better capture the large colloidal fraction, especially in case of unstable AD performance. Secondly, a new inhibition model for AerAOB included diffusion-limiting compounds based on the porter-equation, and achieved the best fit with the experimental data, highlighting that AerAOB were highly sensitive to large colloids. Overall, this paper for the first time provides separate identification of organic fractions within THP-AD filtrate causing differential types of inhibition. Moreover, it highlights the combined effect of the performance of THP, AD and dewatering on the downstream autotrophic nitrogen removal kinetics.

[Construction of a High Efficiency Anaerobic Digestion System for Vinegar Residue].The model of high solid anaerobic digestion was used by improving the degree of homogeneity of the reaction system and biogas slurry reflux to gradually increase the material load. The vinegar residue-efficient anaerobic digestion system was successfully constructed without pretreatment.The optimum anaerobic digestibility was observed when the material loading of the reaction system reached 6.15 g·(L·d), when the amount of biogas produced per unit of dry material was 396 mL·g, and the amount of methane produced per unit of dry material was 211 mL·g. The degradation rate of hemicellulose reached 63.66%, which was the main reason for the improvement of anaerobic digestion performance. The degradation rates of cellulose and lignin were 21.46% and 24.43%, respectively. The lower degradation efficiency was mainly due to the complicated degradation of the benzene ring structure in lignin and hindered hydrolysis of cellulose, which had a shielding effect on cellulose degradation.

Response of enhanced sludge methanogenesis by red mud to temperature: Spectroscopic and electrochemical elucidation of endogenous redox mediators.Adding conductive materials can promote methanogenesis via facilitating electron exchange between syntrophic bacteria and methanogenic archaea. However, little is known about how temperature would interact with such an addition and thus affect the compositions and characteristics of endogenous redox mediators (ERMs). In particular, it is of strong interest to understand how the temperature variation would affect the improvement on methanogenesis induced by ERMs with conductive materials. Herein, we have investigated the response of sludge methanogenesis to temperature variation (from 15 to 35 °C) and spectroscopically detected the ERMs induced by conductive red mud. It was demonstrated that the increasing temperature enhanced the stimulating effect of conductive red mud on methane accumulation, and the methane production potential showed a linear relationship with redox parameters such as areal capacitance (C), free charges (R) and electron exchange capacity (EEC). 2DCOS spectra further indicated that ν and δ in humic acids, β-turn type III amide I ν in Cytochrome c, and δ in amines and lipids became the main redox groups in ERMs at 35 °C with the addition of red mud. The model revealed that the contribution of ERMs to the CO reduction to CH increased from 35.2 ± 1.4% to 58.6 ± 1.5% when the temperature increased from 15 to 35 °C. Our finding that conductive materials stimulated the formation and electroactivity of ERMs with the increasing temperature during anaerobic digestion can have important implications for the improvement of engineered methanogenic processes.

Cryptosporidium parvum decay during air drying and stockpiling of mesophilic anaerobically digested sewage sludge in a simulation experiment and oocyst counts in sludge collected from operational treatment lagoons in Victoria, Australia.The inactivation of Cryptosporidium species oocysts during sewage sludge treatment is important to protect human health when the residual biosolids are applied to agricultural land. Quantifying the decay of Cryptosporidium species during sludge treatment for microbiological assurance purposes is difficult if low numbers are present in wastewater. The rate of decay of Cryptosporidium parvum oocysts during solar/air drying treatment and in sludge stockpiles in temperate environment conditions was simulated in laboratory inoculation experiments using sludge sampled from a mesophilic anaerobic digester. Oocyst numbers were also determined in settled lagoon sludge samples collected from three operational rural wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs). C. parvum oocysts were enumerated by immunomagnetic separation followed by staining with vital dyes and examination by confocal laser scanning microscopy. An air-drying/storage period equivalent to 11 weeks was required for a 1 log reduction of viable oocysts inoculated into digested sludge. Oocyst viability in air-dried and stored digested sludge decreased with time, but was independent of sludge desiccation and dry solids (DS) content. No oocysts were detected in sludge samples collected from the anaerobic digester, and the average concentration of oocysts found in settled lagoon sludge from the rural WWTP was 4.6 × 10 oocysts/g DS.

Characterising and modelling free ammonia and ammonium inhibition in anaerobic systems.Inhibition by ammoniacal nitrogen, consisting of free ammonia (NH) and ammonium ion (NH), has been widely investigated for anaerobic digestion. However, despite the large amount of research on the subject, ammoniacal nitrogen inhibition still threatens many anaerobic digesters. This paper presents (i) a method to reliably characterise ammoniacal nitrogen inhibition and (ii) a robust inhibition modelling approach. Results showed that NH and NH inhibition need to be jointly determined, which can only be done by performing inhibition tests at various total ammoniacal nitrogen (TAN) concentrations and pH values. These test conditions were reliably achieved using the salts NHHCO and NHCl without pH adjustment, rather than by using NHCl with pH adjustment. The use of only salts showed a lower pH change during the inhibition test (∼1.5 days), thereby decreasing the uncertainty in TAN speciation and strengthening the test and model outputs. A threshold inhibition function satisfactorily described (R > 0.99) the joint inhibition of NH and NH on three distinct inocula, and provided a better description of the inhibition testing results than a non-competitive inhibition function (R ∼0.70). The key advantage of the proposed threshold inhibition function is its capacity to identify the inhibition lower limit (concentration where inhibition starts; KI) and upper limit (concentration where inhibition is complete; KI). The threshold inhibition function also identifies the 50% inhibition concentration (KI) at the midpoint of KI and KI. Finally, experimental and model results show that at pH 7.3-7.7 and TAN concentrations above 2000 mgN·L, both NH and NH contribute significantly to overall inhibition.

Assessment of mixing quality in full-scale, biogas-mixed anaerobic digestion using CFD.An Euler-Lagrange CFD model is applied to a full-scale, biogas-mixed anaerobic digester to improve mixing efficiency and improve overall performance. Two quantitative mixing criteria previously adopted in anaerobic digestion (viz., uniformity index and dead volume) are critically assessed for the first time. A novel qualitative method is introduced to clarify the output of the quantitative methods. The first-ever quantitative assessment of mixing quality in full-scale, biogas-mixed anaerobic digestion is then proposed, and a strategy to improve mixing, involving the combined use of concentric nozzle manifolds at the base of the digester, is evaluated.

High-solids anaerobic digestion model for homogenized reactors.During high-solids anaerobic digestion (HS-AD) of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW), an important total solid (TS) removal occurs, leading to the modification of the reactor content mass/volume, in contrast to 'wet' anaerobic digestion (AD). Therefore, HS-AD mathematical simulations need to be approached differently than 'wet' AD simulations. This study aimed to develop a modelling tool based on the anaerobic digestion model 1 (ADM1) capable of simulating the TS and the reactor mass/volume dynamics in HS-AD of OFMSW. Four hypotheses were used, including the effects of apparent concentrations at high TS. The model simulated adequately HS-AD of OFMSW in batch and continuous mode, particularly the evolution of TS, reactor mass, ammonia and volatile fatty acids. By adequately simulating the reactor content mass/volume and the TS, the HS-AD model might bring further insight about potentially inhibitory mechanisms (i.e. NH buildup and/or acidification) occurring in HS-AD of OFMSW.

In Vitro
Modeling of Bile Acid Processing by the Human Fecal Microbiota.Bile acids, the products of concerted host and gut bacterial metabolism, have important signaling functions within the mammalian metabolic system and a key role in digestion. Given the complexity of the mega-variate bacterial community residing in the gastrointestinal tract, studying associations between individual bacterial genera and bile acid processing remains a challenge. Here, we present a novel  approach to determine the bacterial genera associated with the metabolism of different primary bile acids and their potential to contribute to inter-individual variation in this processing. Anaerobic, pH-controlled batch cultures were inoculated with human fecal microbiota and treated with individual conjugated primary bile acids (500 μg/ml) to serve as the sole substrate for 24 h. Samples were collected throughout the experiment (0, 5, 10, and 24 h) and the bacterial composition was determined by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and the bile acid signatures were characterized using a targeted ultra-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (UPLC-MS) approach. Data fusion techniques were used to identify statistical bacterial-metabolic linkages. An increase in gut bacteria associated bile acids was observed over 24 h with variation in the rate of bile acid metabolism across the volunteers ( = 7). Correlation analysis identified a significant association between the  genus and the deconjugation of glycine conjugated bile acids while the deconjugation of taurocholic acid was associated with bacteria from the  and  genera. A positive correlation between  and deoxycholic acid production suggest a potential role for this genus in cholic acid dehydroxylation. A slower deconjugation of taurocholic acid was observed in individuals with a greater abundance of  and . This work demonstrates the utility of integrating compositional (metataxonomics) and functional (metabonomics) systems biology approaches, coupled to  model systems, to study the biochemical capabilities of bacteria within complex ecosystems. Characterizing the dynamic interactions between the gut microbiota and the bile acid pool enables a greater understanding of how variation in the gut microbiota influences host bile acid signatures, their associated functions and their implications for health.

Upregulation of Krebs cycle and anaerobic glycolysis activity early after onset of liver ischemia.The liver is a highly vascularized organ receiving a dual input of oxygenated blood from the hepatic artery and portal vein. The impact of decreased blood flow on glucose metabolism and how hepatocytes could adapt to this restrictive environment are still unclear. Using the left portal vein ligation (LPVL) rat model, we found that cellular injury was delayed after the onset of liver ischemia. We hypothesized that a metabolic adaptation by hepatocytes to maintain energy homeostasis could account for this lag phase. Liver glucose metabolism was characterized by 13C- and 1H-NMR spectroscopy and analysis of high-energy metabolites. ALT levels and caspase 3 activity in LPVL animals remained normal during the first 12 h following surgery (P<0.05). Ischemia rapidly led to decreased intrahepatic tissue oxygen tension and blood flow (P<0.05) and increased expression of Hypoxia-inducible factor 1-alpha. Intrahepatic glucose uptake, ATP/ADP ratio and energy charge level remained stable for up to 12 h after ligation. Entry of glucose in the Krebs cycle was impaired with lowered incorporation of 13C from [U-13C]glucose into glutamate and succinate from 0.25 to 12 h after LPVL. However, total hepatic succinate and glutamate increased 6 and 12 h after ischemia (P<0.05). Glycolysis was initially reduced (P<0.05) but reached maximum 13C-lactate (P<0.001) and 13C-alanine (P<0.01) enrichments 12 h after LPVL. In conclusion, early liver homeostasis stems from an inherent ability of ischemic hepatocytes to metabolically adapt through increased Krebs cycle and glycolysis activity to preserve bioenergetics and cell viability. This metabolic plasticity of hepatocytes could be harnessed to develop novel metabolic strategies to prevent ischemic liver damage.

Methane Production by Co-Digesting Vinasse and Whey in an AnSBBR: Effect of Mixture Ratio and Feed Strategy.The most common approach to deal with vinasse (sugarcane stillage) is fertigation, but this technique compromises soil structure and surrounding water bodies. A possible solution is to transport vinasse to local cheese whey producers and perform the co-digestion of these wastewaters together, reducing their organic load and generating bioenergy. Therefore, this study investigated the application of an AnSBBR (anaerobic sequencing batch biofilm reactor) operated in batch and fed-batch mode, co-digesting vinasse and whey at 30 °C. The effect of influent composition and feeding strategy was assessed. In all conditions, the system achieved high organic matter removal (approximately 83%). Increasing the percentage of vinasse from 0 to 100% in the influent resulted in a decrease in methane productivity (76.3 to 51.1 molCH m day) and yield (12.7 to 9.1 molCH kgCOD), but fed-batch mode operation improved reactor performance (73.0 molCH m day and 11.5 molCH kgCOD). From the kinetic metabolic model, it was possible to infer that, at the best condition, methane is produced in a similar way from the acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic routes. A scheme of four parallel reactors with a volume of 16,950 m each was proposed in the scale-up estimation, with an energy recovery estimated in 28,745 MWh per month.

Cysteine Desulfurase IscS2 Plays a Role in Oxygen Resistance in Clostridium difficile.is an anaerobic, spore-forming bacterium capable of colonizing the gastrointestinal tract of humans following disruption of the normal microbiota, typically from antibiotic therapy for an unrelated infection. With approximately 500,000 confirmed infections leading to 29,000 deaths per year in the United States,  infection (CDI) is an urgent public health threat. We previously determined that  survives in up to 3% oxygen. Low levels of oxygen are present in the intestinal tract, with the higher concentrations being associated with the epithelial cell surface. Additionally, antibiotic treatment, the greatest risk factor for CDI, increases the intestinal oxygen concentration. Therefore, we hypothesized that the  genome encodes mechanisms for survival during oxidative stress. Previous data have shown that cysteine desulfurases involved in iron-sulfur cluster assembly are involved in protecting bacteria from oxidative stress. In this study, deletion of a putative cysteine desulfurase (630_12790/IscS2) involved in the iron-sulfur cluster (Isc) system caused a severe growth defect in the presence of 2% oxygen. Additionally, this mutant delayed colonization in a conventional mouse model of CDI and failed to colonize in a germfree model, which has higher intestinal oxygen levels. These data imply an undefined role for this cysteine desulfurase in protecting  from low levels of oxygen in the gut.

Hybrid algal photosynthesis and ion exchange (HAPIX) process for high ammonium strength wastewater treatment.A hybrid algal photosynthesis and ion exchange (HAPIX) process was developed that uses natural zeolite (chabazite) and wild type algae to treat high ammonium (NH) strength wastewater. In the HAPIX process, NH is temporarily adsorbed from the liquid, which reduces the free ammonia (FA) concentration below the inhibitory level for algal growth. The slow release of adsorbed NH subsequently supports the continuous growth of algae. In this study, a HAPIX reactor reduced NH-N concentrations in centrate from an anaerobic digester from 1180 mg L to below 10 mg L without dilution. Chabazite doses of 60 g L produced more algal biomass, with higher protein and starch contents, than doses of 150 g L and 250 g L. Approximately 67-70% of fatty acids in the algal biomass harvested from HAPIX reactors were unsaturated. A mathematical framework that couples a homogeneous surface diffusion model with a co-limitation algal kinetic growth model reasonably predicted the algal biomass production and NH-N concentrations in the HAPIX reactors. The HAPIX process has the potential to serve a two-fold purpose of high NH-N strength wastewater treatment and agricultural or commercial biopolymer production.

Modeling methane production in anaerobic forward osmosis bioreactor using a modified anaerobic digestion model No. 1.Anaerobic membrane bioreactor (AnMBR) using microfiltration (MF) or ultrafiltration (UF) membranes was introduced to enhance poor biomass retention of conventional anaerobic digestion (CAD). Recently, forward osmosis (FO) membrane have been applied to AnMBR, which is called AnFOMBR. FO membrane assures not only high biomass retention but also high removal efficiency for low molecular weight (LMW) matters. Methane production rates in CAD, AnMBR, and AnFOMBR were compared using a modified IWA anaerobic digestion model No. 1 (ADM1) in this work. Accumulation of biomass in AnMBR/AnFOMBR results in enhanced biochemical reaction and gains more methane production. AnFOMBR may experience a significant inhibition by accumulated free ammonia and cations, although concentrated soluble substrates rejected by FO membrane are favorable for more methane production. Rejection rate of inorganic nitrogen is a key parameter to determine the inhibition in methane production of AnFOMBR.

A need for a standardization in anaerobic digestion experiments? Let's get some insight from meta-analysis and multivariate analysis.An important variability in the experimental results in anaerobic digestion lab test has been reported. This study presents a meta-analysis coupled with multivariate analysis aiming to assess the impact of this experimental variability in batch and continuous operation at mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge. An analysis of variance showed that there was no significant difference between mesophilic and thermophilic conditions in both continuous and batch conditions. Concerning the operation mode, the values of methane yield were significantly higher in batch experiment than in continuous reactors. According to the PCA, for both cases, the methane yield is positive correlated to the temperature rises. Interestingly, in the batch experiments, the higher the volatile solids in the substrate was, the lowest was the methane production, which is correlated to experimental flaws when setting up those tests. In continuous mode, unlike the batch test, the methane yield is strongly (positively) correlated to the organic content of the substrate. Experimental standardization, above all, in batch conditions are urgently necessary or move to continuous experiments for reporting results. The modeling can also be a source of disturbance in batch test.

Effect of thermal pretreatment on chemical composition, physical structure and biogas production kinetics of wheat straw.Hard lignocellulosic structure of wheat straw is the main hindrance in its anaerobic digestion. Thus, a laboratory scale batch experiment was conducted to study the effect of thermal pretreatment on anaerobic digestion of wheat straw. For this purpose, different thermal pretreatment temperatures of 120, 140, 160 and 180 °C were studied and the results were compared with raw wheat straw. Significant differences in biogas production were observed at temperature higher than 160 °C. Highest biogas yield of 615 Nml/gVS and volatile solids reduction of 69% was observed from wheat straw pretreated at 180 °C. Wheat straw pretreated at 180 °C showed 53% higher biogas yield as compared to untreated. Further, FTIR analysis revealed change in chemical bonds of lignocellulosic structure of wheat straw. Modified Gompertz model was best fitted on biogas production data and predicted shorter lag phase time and higher biogas production as the pretreatment temperature increased. Overall, change in lignocellulosic structure and increase in cellulose content were the main reason in enhancing biogas production.

Kinetic modelling of methane production during bio-electrolysis from anaerobic co-digestion of sewage sludge and food waste.In present study batch tests were performed to investigate the enhancement in methane production under bio-electrolysis anaerobic co-digestion of sewage sludge and food waste. The bio-electrolysis reactor system (B-EL) yield more methane 148.5 ml/g COD in comparison to reactor system without bio-electrolysis (B-CONT) 125.1 ml/g COD. Whereas bio-electrolysis reactor system (C-EL) Iron Scraps amended yield lesser methane (51.2 ml/g COD) in comparison to control bio-electrolysis reactor system without Iron scraps (C-CONT - 114.4 ml/g COD). Richard and Exponential model were best fitted for cumulative methane production and biogas production rates respectively as revealed modelling study. The best model fit for the different reactors was compared by Akaike's Information Criterion (AIC) and Bayesian Information Criterion (BIC). The bioelectrolysis process seems to be an emerging technology with lesser the loss in cellulase specific activity with increasing temperature from 50 to 80 °C.

Comparison of thermophilic anaerobic and aerobic treatment processes for stabilization of green and food wastes and production of soil amendments.The management of organic wastes is an environmental and social priority. Aerobic digestion (AED) or composting and anaerobic digestion (AD) are two organic waste management practices that produce a value-added final product. Few side-by-side comparisons of both technologies and their digestate products have been performed. The objective of this study was to compare the impact of initial feedstock properties (moisture content and/or C/N ratio) on stabilization rate by AED and AD and soil amendment characteristics of the final products. Green and food wastes were considered as they are two of the main contributors to municipal organic waste. Stabilization rate was assessed by measurement of CH and CO evolution for AD and AED, respectively. For AD, CH yield showed a second-order relationship with the C/N content (P < 0.05); the optimal C/N ratio indicated by the relationship was 25.5. For AED, cumulative CO evolution values were significantly affected by the C/N ratio and moisture content of the initial feedstock (P < 0.05). A response surface model showed optimal AED stabilization for a C/N of 25.6 and moisture of 64.9% (wet basis). AD final products presented lower soluble chemical oxygen demand (COD) but lower humification degree and aromaticity than the products from AED. This lower stability may lead to further degradation when amended to soil. The results suggest that composting feedstocks with higher C/N produces an end-product with higher suitability for soil amendment. The instability of end products from AD could be leveraged in pest control techniques that rely on organic matter degradation to produce compounds with pesticidal properties.

Characterization and prediction of organic nitrogen biodegradability during anaerobic digestion: A bioaccessibility approach.Prediction of organic nitrogen mineralization into ammonium during anaerobic digestion is required for optimizing substitution of mineral fertilizer by digestates. The aim of this study was to understand organic nitrogen biodegradability and to investigate how it can be predicted from carbon biodegradability, and nitrogen bioaccessibility, respectively. Bioaccessibility was assessed using fractionation methods based on sequential extractions. Results showed that organic nitrogen was present in fractions whose bioaccessibility levels differed. Organic nitrogen and carbon biodegradability were also determined and compared. Results highlighted two groups of substrates: the first with an initial NH/TKN < 30%, whose carbon and nitrogen biodegradability are similar; the second with an initial NH/TKN > 30%, whose carbon and nitrogen biodegradability differ significantly. To enable prediction on all substrates, partial least square (PLS) regressions were carried out to link organic nitrogen bioaccessibility indicators to biodegradability. The models successfully predicted organic nitrogen biodegradability with a maximum prediction error of 10%.

Effect of temperature on kinetics of biogas production from macroalgae.An assessment was carried out on the effect of temperature on the anaerobic digestion of Laminaria digitata biomass, in batch reactors (25, 35, 45 and 55 °C) with a hydraulic retention time of 40 days. The first order, modified Gompertz and logistics models were used to obtain the kinetic parameters of the biogas production process. Results indicate the chemical composition of the algae substrate could be written as CHONS, with a theoretical methane yield of 336 ± 0.86 L CH kg VS. Experimental methane yield obtained from the reactors for 25, 35, 45, and 55 °C were 318 ± 1.58, 293 ± 1.11, 271 ± 0.98 and 352 ± 0.63 mL CH/gVS respectively. Their R > 0.90 indicate both models fits well for predicating kinetics of methane production. The lowest k (0.31), high biodegradability index (0.96) and lag time (9.3-11.7 days) were obtained for 55 °C.

Effluent composition prediction of a two-stage anaerobic digestion process: machine learning and stoichiometry techniques.Computational self-adapting methods (Support Vector Machines, SVM) are compared with an analytical method in effluent composition prediction of a two-stage anaerobic digestion (AD) process. Experimental data for the AD of poultry manure were used. The analytical method considers the protein as the only source of ammonia production in AD after degradation. Total ammonia nitrogen (TAN), total solids (TS), chemical oxygen demand (COD), and total volatile solids (TVS) were measured in the influent and effluent of the process. The TAN concentration in the effluent was predicted, this being the most inhibiting and polluting compound in AD. Despite the limited data available, the SVM-based model outperformed the analytical method for the TAN prediction, achieving a relative average error of 15.2% against 43% for the analytical method. Moreover, SVM showed higher prediction accuracy in comparison with Artificial Neural Networks. This result reveals the future promise of SVM for prediction in non-linear and dynamic AD processes. Graphical abstract ᅟ.

Visceral adipose tissue tracks more closely with metabolic dysfunction than intrahepatic triglyceride in lean Asians without diabetes.Increased visceral adipose tissue (VAT) and intrahepatic triglyceride (IHTG) are important risk factors for the development of type 2 diabetes in subjects with obesity. The relative contribution of these ectopic fat depots to cardiometabolic risk differs between populations, depends on the degree of obesity and the level of cardiorespiratory fitness, and is difficult to dissect because VAT and IHTG typically covary. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of an isolated increase in VAT or IHTG on insulin sensitivity and insulin secretion in apparently healthy normal-weight Asian subjects. Total body fat (dual X-ray absorptiometry), VAT and IHTG (magnetic resonance), insulin sensitivity (4-h hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamp), beta cell responsivity and insulin secretion rate (3-h mixed meal with mathematical modeling), and cardiorespiratory fitness (maximal oxygen consumption [V̇o]) were evaluated in groups of lean subjects with low or high VAT (687 ± 94 vs. 1,279 ± 197 ml, matched for IHTG; n = 13 each) and low or high IHTG (1.7 ± 0.3 vs. 6.7 ± 2.0%, matched for VAT; n = 15 each). All groups were matched for age, sex, total body fat, and V̇o. High-VAT subjects had ~25% lower insulin sensitivity, ~20%-40% greater beta cell responsivity and insulin secretion rate, ~35% greater fasting triglyceride concentration, and ~40% lower adiponectin concentration than low-VAT subjects (all P < 0.05). No differences were observed between low-IHTG and high-IHTG subjects. Accumulation of excess fat in the intra-abdominal area is more strongly associated with metabolic dysfunction than accumulation of liver fat in lean Asians without diabetes. NEW & NOTEWORTHY It is not known whether metabolic abnormalities in Asians without obesity track more closely with visceral or liver fat. We found an isolated increase in visceral fat was associated with reduced insulin sensitivity, greater insulin secretion, greater triglyceride, and lower adiponectin concentrations; no differences were observed with an isolated increase in liver fat. These results suggest that visceral fat is a better correlate of metabolic dysfunction than liver fat in Asians without obesity.

Activity corrections are required for accurate anaerobic digestion modelling.The impact on the prediction of key process variables in anaerobic digestion (AD) when activity corrections are neglected (e.g. when ideal solution is assumed) is evaluated in this paper. The magnitude of deviations incurred in key variables was quantified using a generalised physicochemistry modelling framework that incorporates activity corrections. Deviations incurred on the intermediate and partial alkalinity ratio (a key control variable in AD) already reach values over 20% in typical AD scenarios at low ionic strengths. Deviations of moderate importance (∼5%) in free ammonia, hydrogen sulfide inhibition, as well as in the biogas composition, were observed. Those errors become very large for components involving multiple deprotonations, such as inorganic phosphorus, and their magnitude (∼40%) would impede proper precipitation modelling. A dynamic AD case simulation involving a series of overloads showed model underpredictions of the process acidification when activity corrections are neglected. This compromises control actions based on such models. Based on these results, a systematic incorporation of activity corrections in AD models is strongly recommended. This will prevent model overfitting to observations related to inaccurate physicochemistry modelling, at a marginal computational cost. Alternatives for these implementations are also discussed.

Pre-separation of ammonium content during high solid thermal-alkaline pretreatment to mitigate ammonia inhibition: Kinetics and feasibility analysis.The feasibility of ammonia pre-separation during the thermal-alkaline pretreatment (TAP) of waste activated sludge was evaluated to mitigate ammonia inhibition during high solid anaerobic digestion (HSAD). The results showed that the TAP increased the organics hydrolysis rate as much as 77% compared to the thermal hydrolysis pretreatment (THP). The production and separation of the ammonia during the TAP exhibited a linear relationship with the hydrolysis of organics and the Emerson model. The pre-separation ratio of the free ammonia nitrogen exceeded 98.00% at a lime dosage exceeding 0.021 g CaO/g TS. However, the separation ratio of the total ammonia nitrogen (TAN) was hindered by its production ratio. Compared to the THP, the TAP increased the methane production rate under similar production yield. A mass flow analysis indicated that the TAP-HSAD process reduced the volume of the digester compared to the THP-HSAD process and the recirculated HSAD-TAP process recovered 45% of the nitrogen in the waste activated sludge.

Liver antioxidant and aerobic status improves after metformin and melatonin administration in a rat model of high-fat diet and mammary carcinogenesis.Oxidative stress is involved in the development of various cancers. In the present study, the effect of long-term administration of peroral antidiabetic metformin and pineal hormone melatonin on liver antioxidant and aerobic status in female Sprague-Dawley rats carrying mammary tumors induced by N-methyl-N-nitrosourea was evaluated. Both substances were administered in a preventive and curative manner (12 days before and 16 weeks after the carcinogen application). Carcinogen administration induced oxidative stress: the level of thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) considered as a marker of reactive oxygen species (ROS) generation in liver increased as well as the level of oxidatively modified protein content (OMP; aldehyde and ketone derivates). Metformin administration restored succinate dehydrogenase and lactate dehydrogenase activity and associated ROS production and OMP content to the level of intact rats, with predominant activation of superoxide dismutase (SOD) and glutathione reductase (GR). Melatonin alone and in combination with metformin also decreased TBARS content. OMP content decreased in all groups receiving chemoprevention. The rise in total antioxidant capacity after melatonin and particularly metformin and melatonin combination might result from the initiation of anaerobic metabolism and increasing SOD, GR, and glutathione peroxidase activity. Long-term administration of metformin and melatonin exerts antioxidant properties in liver, especially in combination.

Drinking water treatment sludge as an effective additive for biogas production from food waste; kinetic evaluation and biomethane potential test.The effect of drinking water treatment sludge (DWTS) as a mixture additive, on biogas and methane production from food waste was studied. Mesophilic anaerobic digestion of food waste with 5 concentrations of DWTS (0, 2, 6, 12, and 18 ppm) was carried out. It was found that DWTS can significantly enhance biogas and methane yield. The highest biogas (671 Nml/g VS) as well as methane yield (522 Nml/g VS) was observed when 6 mg/kg DWTS was added. This is equal to 65 and 58 percent increase in comparison with the control digester. The calculated lag time for methane was found to be in between 3.3 and 4.7 days. The DWTS also reduced the lag phase and retention time. The biogas experimental data was fitted with the modified Gompertz and the first-order kinetic models with R higher than 0.994 and 0.949, respectively. The ratio of the experimental biogas production to the theoretical biogas production (ɛ) for control sample was 0.53 while for other samples containing additive were higher than 0.78.

Intestinal manipulation affects mucosal antimicrobial defense in a mouse model of postoperative ileus.To explore the effects of abdominal surgery and interleukin-1 signaling on antimicrobial defense in a model of postoperative ileus.
C57BL/6 and Interleukin-1 receptor type I (IL-1R1) deficient mice underwent intestinal manipulation to induce POI. Expression of mucosal IL-1α, IL-1β and IL-1R1 and several antimicrobial peptides and enzymes were measured by quantitative PCR or ELISA, western blotting or immunohistochemistry. Bacterial overgrowth was determined by fluorescent in-situ hybridization and counting of jejunal luminal bacteria. Translocation of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria into the intestinal wall, mesenteric lymph nodes, liver and spleen was determined by counting bacterial colonies on agar plates 48h after plating of tissue homogenates. Antimicrobial activity against E. coli and B. vulgatus was analyzed in total and cationic fractions of small bowel mucosal tissue homogenates by a flow cytometry-based bacterial depolarization assay.
Jejunal bacterial overgrowth was detected 24h after surgery. At the same time point, but not in the early phase 3h after surgery, bacterial translocation into the liver and mesenteric lymph nodes was observed. Increased antimicrobial activity against E. coli was induced within early phase of POI. Basal antimicrobial peptide and enzyme gene expression was higher in the ileal compared to the jejunal mucosa. The expression of lysozyme 1, cryptdin 1, cryptdin 4 and mucin 2 were reduced 24h after surgery in the ileal mucosa and mucin 2 was also reduced in the jejunum. Postoperative IL-1α and IL-1β were increased in the postoperative mucosa. Deficiency of IL-1R1 affected the expression of antimicrobial peptides during homeostasis and POI.
Small bowel antimicrobial capacity is disturbed during POI which is accompanied by bacterial overgrowth and translocation. IL-1R1 is partially involved in the gene expression of mucosal antimicrobial peptides. Altered small bowel antimicrobial activity may contribute also to POI development and manifestation in patients undergoing abdominal surgery.

Modelling of an anaerobic plug-flow reactor. Process analysis and evaluation approaches with non-ideal mixing considerations.This study shows the implementation of the Anaerobic Digestion Model (ADM1) in an anaerobic plug-flow reactor (PFR) with two approaches based on the use of consecutive continuous stirred tank reactors (CSTR) connected in serie for considering non-ideal mixing. The two-region (TR) model splits each CSTR into two regions, while the particulate retention (PR) model adds a retention parameter. The models were calibrated and validated based on experimental data from a bench-scale reactor treating cow manure. The PFR conventional model slightly outperformed the non-ideal mixing approaches. However, the PR model showed an increase in biomass retention time treating high solid content substrate. Biogas production was not sensitive to variations of the mixing parameters. The liquid fraction content was better represented by the PR model than the PFR and TR models. The study shows how reactor modelling is useful for monitoring and supervising biogas plants.

Myoglobin: Oxygen Depot or Oxygen Transporter to Mitochondria? A Novel Mechanism of Myoglobin Deoxygenation in Cells (review).In this review, we shortly summarize the data of our studies (and also corresponding studies of other authors) on the new mechanism of myoglobin (Mb) deoxygenation in a cell, according to which Mb acts as an oxygen transporter, and its affinity for the ligand, like in other transporting proteins, is regulated by the interaction with the target, in our case, mitochondria (Mch). We firstly found that contrary to previously formulated and commonly accepted concepts, oxymyoglobin (MbO) deoxygenation occurs only via interaction of the protein with respiring mitochondria (low p values are necessary but not sufficient for this process to proceed). Detailed studies of the mechanism of Mb-Mch interaction by various physicochemical methods using natural and artificial bilayer phospholipid membranes showed that: (i) the rate of MbO deoxygenation in the presence of respiring Mch fully coincides with the rate of O2 uptake by mitochondria from a solution irrespectively of their state (native coupled, freshly frozen, or FCCP-uncoupled), i.e. it is determined by the respiratory activity of Mch; (ii) Mb nonspecifically binds to membrane phospholipids of the outer mitochondrial membrane, while any Mb-specific protein or phospholipid sites on it are lacking; (iii) oxygen uptake by Mch from a solution and the uptake of Mb-bound oxygen are two different processes, as their rates are differently affected by proteins (e.g. lysozyme) that compete with MbO for binding to the mitochondrial membrane; (iv) electrostatic forces significantly contribute to the Mb-membrane interactions; the dependence of these interactions on ionic strength is provided by the local electrostatic interactions between anionic groups of phospholipids (the heads) and invariant Lys and Arg residues near the Mb heme pocket; (v) interactions of Mb with phospholipid membranes promote conformational changes in the protein, primarily in its heme pocket, without significant alterations in the protein secondary and tertiary structures; and (vi) Mb-membrane interactions lead to decrease in the affinity of myoglobin for O2, which could be monitored by the increase in the MbO autooxidation rate under aerobic conditions and under anaerobic ones, by the shift in the MbO/Mb(2) equilibrium towards the ligand-free protein. The decrease in the affinity of Mb for the ligand should facilitate O2 dissociation from MbO at physiological p values in cells.

Kinetic modeling of the effect of solids retention time on methanethiol dynamics in anaerobic digestion.The highly volatile methanethiol (MT) with an extremely low odor threshold and distinctive putrid smell is often identified as a major odorous compound generated under anaerobic conditions. As an intermediate compound in the course of anaerobic digestion, the extent of MT emission is closely related to the time of anaerobic reaction. In this study, lab-scale anaerobic digesters were operated at solids retention time (SRTs) of 15, 20, 25, 30, 40 and 50 days to investigate the effect of SRT on MT emission. The experimental results demonstrated a bell-shaped curve of MT emission versus SRT with a peak around 20 days SRT. In order to understand this SRT effect, a kinetic model was developed to describe MT production and utilization dynamics in the course of anaerobic digestion and calibrated with the experimental results collected from this study. The model outcome revealed that the high protein content in the feed sludge together with the large maintenance coefficient of MT fermenters are responsible for the peak MT emission emergence in the range of typical SRT used for anaerobic digestion. A further analysis of the kinetic model shows that it can be extensively simplified with reasonable approximation to a form that anaerobic digestion practitioners could easily use to predict the MT and SRT relationship.

Nutrient characterisation and bioenergy potential of common Nigerian food wastes.Nigeria is the world's largest producer of yam, cassava, cocoyam/taro, beans/cowpea, egusi/melon seeds and among the largest producers of groundnut/peanut, plantain, corn/maize and ugwu/pumpkin leaves. These food crops generate unavoidable food wastes that can contribute to environmental degradation through unsanctioned waste disposal methods. Such food wastes can be utilised as feedstock for the anaerobic digestion (AD) process to produce renewable energy. In order to determine the suitability of the food wastes as biofuel feedstock, they were experimentally analysed. Their waste content was determined, characterised and used to evaluate their bio-methane potential. The tests were performed using standard proximate analytical methods while the bioenergy potential of the samples was determined using the Baserga model. Results indicated a specific waste index range of 0.2-1.5, with corn having the highest waste proportion. The proximate analysis results of the wastes were within the range of common AD feedstocks such as energy crops and plant by-products. The bio-methane potentials of the samples varied widely with results ranging from 35-460 m tonne on fresh weight and (5.4-6.2) × 10 m kg on volatile solid basis. The methane potential varied between 51% and 58% of produced biogas. The energy potential of the food wastes was 31 TWh yr which can make a substantial contribution to the bioenergy production of the country and meet up to the energy demand of 4.7 × 10 Nigerian households. Further studies would be required to determine the actual biogas yields of the food wastes.

Anaerobic digestion performance of sweet potato vine and animal manure under wet, semi-dry, and dry conditions.Sweet potato vine (SPV) is an abundant agricultural waste, which is easy to obtain at low cost and has the potential to produce clean energy via anaerobic digestion (AD). The main objectives of this study were to reveal methane production and process stability of SPV and the mixtures with animal manure under various total solid conditions, to verify synergetic effect in co-digestion of SPV and manure in AD systems, and to determine the kinetics characteristics during the full AD process. The results showed that SPV was desirable feedstock for AD with 200.22 mL/g VS of methane yield in wet anaerobic digestion and 12.20 L/L in dry anaerobic digestion (D-AD). Synergistic effects were found in semi-dry anaerobic digestion and D-AD with each two mixing feedstock. In contrast with SPV mono-digestion, co-digestion with manure increased methane yield within the range of 14.34-49.11% in different AD digesters. The values of final volatile fatty acids to total alkalinity (TA) were below 0.4 and the values of final pH were within the range of 7.4-8.2 in all the reactors, which supported a positive relationship between carbohydrate hydrolysis and methanogenesis during AD process. The mathematical modified first order model was applied to estimate substrate biodegradability and methane production potential well with conversion constant ranged from 0.0003 to 0.0953 1/day, which indicated that co-digestion increased hydrolysis efficiency and metabolic activity. This work provides useful information to improve the utilization and stability of digestion using SPV and livestock or poultry manure as substrates.

Expression of recombinant human lysozyme in bacterial artificial chromosome transgenic mice promotes the growth of Bifidobacterium and inhibits the growth of Salmonella in the intestine.Targeted gene modification is a novel intervention strategy to increase disease resistance more quickly than traditional animal breeding. Human lysozyme, a natural, non-specific immune factor, participates in innate immunity, exerts a wide range of antimicrobial activities against pathogens, and has immuneregulatory effects. Therefore, it is a candidate gene for improved disease resistance in animals. In this study, we successfully generated a transgenic mouse model by microinjecting a modified bacterial artificial chromosome containing a recombinant human lysozyme (rhLZ) gene into the pronuclei of fertilized mouse embryos. rhLZ was expressed in serum, liver, spleen, lung, kidney, stomach, small intestine, and large intestine but not in milk. rhLZ protein concentrations in the serum of transgenic mice ranged from 2.09 to 2.60 mg/l. To examine the effect of rhLZ on intestinal microbiota, total aerobes, total anaerobes, Clostridium, Enterococcus, Streptococcus, Salmonella, Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus, Bifidobacterium, and Lactobacillus were measured in the intestines of transgenic and wild type mice. Results showed that Bifidobacteria were significantly increased (p < 0.001), whereas Salmonella were significantly decreased (p < 0.001) in transgenic mice compared to wild type mice. Our study suggests that rhLZ expression is a potential strategy to increase animal disease resistance.

ADM1 modelling of large-scale covered in-ground anaerobic reactor treating sugarcane vinasse.In this paper, we demonstrate in a clear procedure the application of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) to model a large-scale covered in-ground anaerobic reactor (Cigar), processing sugarcane vinasse from a biorefinery in Brazil. The biochemical make-up (carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids) of the substrate was analysed based on the food industry standards. Two distinct subsets of data, based on the sugarcane harvest season for bioethanol and sugar production in 2012 and 2014, were used to direct and cross validate the model, respectively. We fitted measured data by estimating two key parameters against biogas flow rate: the degradation extent (f) and the first order hydrolysis rate coefficient (k). By cross validation we show that the fitted model can be generalised to represent the behaviour of the reactor under study. Therefore, motivated by practical and industrial application of ADM1, for both different reactors types and substrates, we show aspects on the implementation of ADM1 to a specific large-scale reactor for anaerobic digestion of sugarcane vinasse.

Distillers' grains anaerobic digestion residue biochar used for ammonium sorption and its effect on ammonium leaching from an Ultisol.The aim of this work was to explore the potential application of biochar from distillers' grains anaerobic digestion residue pyrolyzed at 700 °C (ADR-DG) to ammonium (NH) adsorption from aqueous solution, as well as its effect on NH leaching from an Ultisol. The adsorption kinetic of NH on the ADR-DG could be described by an Elovich model (R = 0.995), and the combined Langmuir-Freundlich model (R = 0.997) fitted the isotherm data better than the Langmuir, Freundlich, Redlich-Peterson, and Temkin models with a maximum adsorption of 11.41 mg N g. The NH adsorption on ADR-DG was mainly controlled by the cation exchange, the surface complexation with oxygen-containing functional groups of carboxyl C〓O (C▬O) and carbohydrate C▬OH, as well as the electrostatic interactions with Si▬O▬Si functional group. In addition, the ADR-DG soil application reduced 2.48-20.67% of NH-N leaching loss after nitrogen fertilizer application in an Ultisol. These results suggested that the ADR-DG could be a sorbent for NH-contaminated water as well as an inhibitor for soil NH leaching.

Multiplexed chemostat system for quantification of biodiversity and ecosystem functioning in anaerobic digestion.Continuous cultures in chemostats have proven their value in microbiology, microbial ecology, systems biology and bioprocess engineering, among others. In these systems, microbial growth and ecosystem performance can be quantified under stable and defined environmental conditions. This is essential when linking microbial diversity to ecosystem function. Here, a new system to test this link in anaerobic, methanogenic microbial communities is introduced. Rigorously replicated experiments or a suitable experimental design typically require operating several chemostats in parallel. However, this is labor intensive, especially when measuring biogas production. Commercial solutions for multiplying reactors performing continuous anaerobic digestion exist but are expensive and use comparably large reactor volumes, requiring the preparation of substantial amounts of media. Here, a flexible system of Lab-scale Automated and Multiplexed Anaerobic Chemostat system (LAMACs) with a working volume of 200 mL is introduced. Sterile feeding, biomass wasting and pressure monitoring are automated. One module containing six reactors fits the typical dimensions of a lab bench. Thanks to automation, time required for reactor operation and maintenance are reduced compared to traditional lab-scale systems. Several modules can be used together, and so far the parallel operation of 30 reactors was demonstrated. The chemostats are autoclavable. Parameters like reactor volume, flow rates and operating temperature can be freely set. The robustness of the system was tested in a two-month long experiment in which three inocula in four replicates, i.e., twelve continuous digesters were monitored. Statistically significant differences in the biogas production between inocula were observed. In anaerobic digestion, biogas production and consequently pressure development in a closed environment is a proxy for ecosystem performance. The precision of the pressure measurement is thus crucial. The measured maximum and minimum rates of gas production could be determined at the same precision. The LAMACs is a tool that enables us to put in practice the often-demanded need for replication and rigorous testing in microbial ecology as well as bioprocess engineering.

Mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste with the liquid fraction from hydrothermal carbonization of sewage sludge.In the present study, the influence of substrate pre-treatment (grinding and sieving) on batch anaerobic digestion of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) was first assessed, then followed by co-digestion experiments with the liquid fraction from hydrothermal carbonization (LFHTC) of dewatered sewage sludge (DSS). The methane yield of batch anaerobic digestion after grinding and sieving (20 mm diameter) the OFMSW was considerably higher (453 mL CH STP g VS) than that of untreated OFMSW (285 mL CH STP g VS). The modified Gompertz model adequately predicted process performance. The maximum methane production rate, R, for ground and sieved OFMSW was 2.4 times higher than that of untreated OFMSW. The anaerobic co-digestion of different mixtures of OFMSW and LFHTC of DSS did not increase the methane yield above that of the anaerobic digestion of OFMSW alone, and no synergistic effects were observed. However, the co-digestion of both wastes at a ratio of 75% OFMSW-25% LFHTC provides a practical waste management option. The experimental results were adequately fitted to a first-order kinetic model showing a kinetic constant virtually independent of the percentage of LFHTC (0.52-0.56 d) and decreasing slightly for 100% LFHTC (0.44 d).

Modelling methane emission mitigation by anaerobic digestion: effect of storage conditions and co-digestion.In this work the methane conversion factor (MCF) of untreated and anaerobically digested cattle manure (CM) as a function of storage temperature, time and co-digestion was measured in an in vitro experiment and modelled based on IPCC (2006) methodology (Tier 2). For this, one sample of untreated CM, one sample of mono-digested CM and three samples of CM co-digested with grass were incubated at seven different temperatures (from 5°C to 50°C) over 346 days. The main results showed that ultimate methane yield () of CM is higher than the  reported by the IPCC (2006). Two temperature ranges should be considered for MCF evolution, below 15°C very low MCF was measured in this work for untreated CM, mono and co-digested samples. At higher temperatures, MCF obtained in this work and that provided by the IPCC could be comparable depending on storage time. Anaerobic mono-digestion decreased MCF compared to untreated CM at all temperatures and times, except in the temperature range between 20°C and 25°C if storage time is low, due to a lag phase observed in CM. This lag phase would probably not happen in real storage conditions depending on the proportion of old manure remaining in the storage tank. Co-digestion with grass-decreased MCF compared to mono-digestion, but increased CH production in terms of fresh matter due to the higher  of the mixture. Storage time, temperature and co-digestion should be considered in the quantification of CH emission from digested material.

The influence of the total solid content on the stability of dry-thermophilic anaerobic digestion of rice straw and pig manure.Dry anaerobic digestion is a promising technology for the recycling of agricultural waste to produce energy and fertilizer. Adding water to the substrate enables better handling and avoid inhibition caused by high total solid (TS) content in the reactor; however, it also increases leachate and operational costs. To assess the extent to which the amount of water added can be reduced, it was examined how the TS content in the reactor influenced the production of biogas. A semi-batch dry thermophilic anaerobic digester was fed with substrate (rice straw and pig manure) at a constant organic loading rate, and varied the TS contents (27%, 32%, 37%, and 42%) of the substrate by adding different amounts of water (representing 0-36% of the total substrate). During incubation, the TS content in the reactor gradually increased from 18% to 31%. Biogas production was stable and high (564 ± 13-580 ± 36 N m t VS), and there was no accumulation of volatile fatty acids when the TS content of the reactor was between 18% and 27%. However, the rate decreased sharply and propionate and acetate were also produced when the TS content of the reactor exceeded 28%. By applying a simple TS balance model, it was found that stable biogas production could be achieved at a substrate TS content of 32%, at which reactor TS content reached 23% at steady-state condition.

Evaluation of alkalinity spatial distribution in an up-flow fixed bed anaerobic digester.In this paper, an experimental study upon alkalinity and hydrodynamic behavior in an anaerobic up-flow fixed bed reactor for the treatment of tequila vinasses is presented. Measurements of volatile fatty acids, pH, alkalinity and bicarbonate were obtained at three sampling points in the reactor in the axial axis. Then, the spatial distribution of alkalinity is studied and discussed. Moreover, for further control process purposes, a hydrodynamic model based on the use of two interconnected two-steps reduced AM2 type models is proposed and its parameters are identified using experimental data.

Feedforward neural network model estimating pollutant removal process within mesophilic upflow anaerobic sludge blanket bioreactor treating industrial starch processing wastewater.In this a, three-layered feedforward-backpropagation artificial neural network (BPANN) model was developed and employed to evaluate COD removal an upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor treating industrial starch processing wastewater. At the end of UASB operation, microbial community characterization revealed satisfactory composition of microbes whereas morphology depicted rod-shaped archaea. pH, COD, NH, VFA, OLR and biogas yield were selected by principal component analysis and used as input variables. Whilst tangent sigmoid function (tansig) and linear function (purelin) were assigned as activation functions at the hidden-layer and output-layer, respectively, optimum BPANN architecture was achieved with Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm (trainlm) after eleven training algorithms had been tested. Based on performance indicators such the mean squared errors, fractional variance, index of agreement and coefficient of determination (R), the BPANN model demonstrated significant performance with R reaching 87%. The study revealed that, control and optimization of an anaerobic digestion process with BPANN model was feasible.

Effect of pretreatments on biogas production from microalgae biomass grown in pig manure treatment plants.Methane production from pretreated and raw mixed microalgae biomass grown in pig manure was evaluated. Acid and basic pretreatments provided the highest volatile solids solubilisation (up to 81%) followed by alkaline-peroxide and ultrasounds (23%). Bead milling and steam explosion remarkably increased the methane production rate, although the highest yield (377 mL CH/g SV) was achieved by alkali pretreatment. Nevertheless, some pretreatments inhibited biogas production and resulted in lag phases of 7-9 days. Hence, experiments using only the pretreated solid phase were performed, which resulted in a decrease in the lag phase to 2-3 days for the alkali pretreatment and slightly increased biomass biodegradability of few samples. The limiting step during the BMP test (hydrolysis or microbial inhibition) for each pretreatment was elucidated using the goodness of fitting to a first order or a Gompertz model. Finally, the use of digestate as biofertilizer was evaluated applying a biorefinery concept.

Effect of sodium fluoride on oral biofilm microbiota and enamel demineralization.Fluoride is widely used as an anti-caries agent, e.g. in toothpastes and mouth rinses. However, the nature of the anti-caries action is not entirely clear. Mechanisms suspected to explain the cariostatic effect include inhibitory effects on acid formation by bacteria, inhibition of extracellular polysaccharide (EPS) production, inhibition of enamel demineralization and enhancement of remineralizaton or combination thereof. The aim of this study was to examine with the supragingival Zurich in vitro biofilm model the effect of fluoride in NaF formulation, on the microbiota and on demineralization.
Biofilms consisting of Actinomyces oris, Candida albicans, Fusobacterium nucleatum, Streptococcus oralis, Veillonella dispar and Streptococcus sobrinus, were grown anaerobically on sintered hydroxyapatite or bovine enamel disks, exposed to 200, 400, and 1400 ppm of NaF, or 0.1% chlorhexidine (positive control). The biofilms were harvested after 64 h and CFUs were assessed for total bacteria. Demineralization of enamel disks was measured by quantitative light-induced fluorescence.
NaF did not affect the bacterial numbers. No enamel mineral loss was observed at 1400 and 400 ppm of fluoride, whereas the pH of the surrounding medium was increased to 5.5 and 5.0, respectively, compared to the untreated control (pH 4.5 and mineral loss ΔF of -32%). At 1400 ppm NaF the biofilm's EPS volume was also significantly reduced.
Administration of NaF completely prevented demineralization without affecting biofilm composition and growth. This protective effect may be attributed to the observed decrease in acid production or EPS volume, or to a shift in the de/remineralization balance.

Enhanced Methane Production from Food Waste Using Cysteine To Increase Biotransformation of l-Monosaccharide, Volatile Fatty Acids, and Biohydrogen.The enhancement of two-stage anaerobic digestion of polysaccharide-enriched food waste by the addition of cysteine-an oxygen scavenger, electron mediator, and nitrogen source-to the acidification stage was reported. It was found that in the acidification stage the accumulation of volatile fatty acids (VFA), which mainly consisted of acetate, butyrate, and propionate, was increased by 49.3% at a cysteine dosage of 50 mg/L. Although some cysteine was biodegraded in the acidification stage, the VFA derived from cysteine was negligible. In the methanogenesis stage, the biotransformations of both VFA and biohydrogen to methane were enhanced, and the methane yield was improved by 43.9%. The mechanisms study showed that both d-glucose and l-glucose (the model monosaccharides) were detectable in the hydrolysis product, and the addition of cysteine remarkably increased the acidification of l-glucose, especially acetic acid and hydrogen generation, due to key enzymes involved in l-glucose metabolism being enhanced. Cysteine also improved the activity of homoacetogens by 34.8% and hydrogenotrophic methanogens by 54%, which might be due to the electron transfer process being accelerated. This study provided an alternative method to improve anaerobic digestion performance and energy recovery from food waste.

A 3D intestinal tissue model supports Clostridioides difficile germination, colonization, toxin production and epithelial damage.Endospore-forming Clostridioides difficile is a causative agent of antibiotic-induced diarrhea, a major nosocomial infection. Studies of its interactions with mammalian tissues have been hampered by the fact that C. difficile requires anaerobic conditions to survive after spore germination. We recently developed a bioengineered 3D human intestinal tissue model and found that low O conditions are produced in the lumen of these tissues. Here, we compared the ability of C. difficile spores to germinate, produce toxin and cause tissue damage in our bioengineered 3D tissue model versus in a 2D transwell model in which human cells form a polarized monolayer. 3D tissue models or 2D polarized monolayers on transwell filters were challenged with the non-toxin producing C. difficile CCUG 37787 serotype X (ATCC 43603) and the toxin producing UK1 C. difficile spores in the presence of the germinant, taurocholate. Spores germinated in both the 3D tissue model as well as the 2D transwell system, however toxin activity was significantly higher in the 3D tissue models compared to the 2D transwells. Moreover, the epithelium damage in the 3D tissue model was significantly more severe than in 2D transwells and damage correlated significantly with the level of toxin activity detected but not with the amount of germinated spores. Combined, these results show that the bioengineered 3D tissue model provides a powerful system with which to study early events leading to toxin production and tissue damage of C. difficile with mammalian cells under anaerobic conditions. Furthermore, these systems may be useful for examining the effects of microbiota, novel drugs and other potential therapeutics directed towards C. difficile infections.

Removal of tetracyclines, sulfonamides, and quinolones by industrial-scale composting and anaerobic digestion processes.This study evaluated and compared the removal of antibiotics by industrial-scale composting and anaerobic digestion at different seasons. Twenty compounds belonged to three classes of widely used veterinary antibiotics (i.e., tetracyclines, sulfonamides, and quinolones) were investigated. Results show that of the three groups of antibiotics, tetracyclines were dominant in swine feces and poorly removed by anaerobic digestion with significant accumulation in biosolids, particularly in winter. Compared to that in winter, a much more effective removal (> 97%) by anaerobic digestion was observed for sulfonamides in summer. By contrast, quinolones were the least abundant antibiotics in swine feces and exhibited a higher removal by anaerobic digestion in winter than in summer. The overall removal of antibiotics by aerobic composting could be more than 90% in either winter or summer. Nevertheless, compost products from livestock farms in Beijing contained much higher antibiotics than commercial organic fertilizers. Thus, industrial composting standards should be strictly applied to livestock farms to further remove antibiotics and produce high quality organic fertilizer.

Modeling and Multiresponse Optimization for Anaerobic Codigestion of Oil Refinery Wastewater and Chicken Manure by Using Artificial Neural Network and the Taguchi Method.To study the optimum process conditions for pretreatments and anaerobic codigestion of oil refinery wastewater (ORWW) with chicken manure, L (3) Taguchi's orthogonal array was applied. The biogas production (BGP), biomethane content (BMP), and chemical oxygen demand solubilization (CODS) in stabilization rate were evaluated as the process outputs. The optimum conditions were obtained by using Design Expert software (Version 7.0.0). The results indicated that the optimum conditions could be achieved with 44% ORWW, 36°C temperature, 30 min sonication, and 6% TS in the digester. The optimum BGP, BMP, and CODS removal rates by using the optimum conditions were 294.76 mL/gVS, 151.95 mL/gVS, and 70.22%, respectively, as concluded by the experimental results. In addition, the artificial neural network (ANN) technique was implemented to develop an ANN model for predicting BGP yield and BMP content. The Levenberg-Marquardt algorithm was utilized to train ANN, and the architecture of 9-19-2 for the ANN model was obtained.

On the derivation of a simple dynamic model of anaerobic digestion including the evolution of hydrogen.Hydrogen has been found to be an important intermediate during anaerobic digestion (AD) and a key variable for process monitoring as it gives valuable information about the stability of the reactor. However, simple dynamic models describing the evolution of hydrogen are not commonplace. In this work, such a dynamic model is derived using a systematic data driven-approach, which consists of a principal component analysis to deduce the dimension of the minimal reaction subspace explaining the data, followed by an identification of the kinetic parameters in the least-squares sense. The procedure requires the availability of informative data sets. When the available data does not fulfill this condition, the model can still be built from simulated data, obtained using a detailed model such as ADM1. This dynamic model could be exploited in monitoring and control applications after a re-identification of the parameters using actual process data. As an example, the model is used in the framework of a control strategy, and is also fitted to experimental data from raw industrial wine processing wastewater.

Co-digestion of solid waste: Towards a simple model to predict methane production.Modeling methane production is a key issue for solid waste co-digestion. Here, the effect of a step-wise increase in the organic loading rate (OLR) on reactor performance was investigated, and four new models were evaluated to predict methane yields using data acquired in batch mode. Four co-digestion experiments of mixtures of 2 solid substrates were conducted in semi-continuous mode. Experimental methane yields were always higher than the BMP values of mixtures calculated from the BMP of each substrate, highlighting the importance of endogenous production (methane produced from auto-degradation of microbial community and generated solids). The experimental methane productions under increasing OLRs corresponded well to the modeled data using the model with constant endogenous production and kinetics identified at 80% from total batch time. This model provides a simple and useful tool for technical design consultancies and plant operators to optimize the co-digestion and the choice of the OLRs.

Profitable ultrasonic assisted microwave disintegration of sludge biomass: Modelling of biomethanation and energy parameter analysis.In this study, microwave irradiation has been employed to disintegrate the sludge biomass profitably by deagglomerating the sludge using a mechanical device, ultrasonicator. The outcomes of the study revealed that a specific energy input of 3.5 kJ/kg TS was found to be optimum for deagglomeration with limited cell lysis. A higher suspended solids (SS) reduction and biomass lysis efficiency of about 22.5% and 33.2% was achieved through ultrasonic assisted microwave disintegration (UMWD) when compared to microwave disintegration - MWD (15% and 20.9%). The results of biochemical methane potential (BMP) test were used to estimate biodegradability of samples. Among the samples subjected to BMP, UMWD showed better amenability towards anaerobic digestion with higher methane production potential of 0.3 L/g COD representing enhanced liquefaction potential of disaggregated sludge biomass. Economic analysis of the proposed method of sludge biomass pretreatment showed a net profit of 2.67 USD/Ton respectively.

Microbiota-Derived Metabolic Factors Reduce Campylobacteriosis in Mice.Campylobacter jejuni, a prevalent foodborne bacterial pathogen, exploits the host innate response to induce colitis. Little is known about the roles of microbiota in C jejuni-induced intestinal inflammation. We investigated interactions between microbiota and intestinal cells during C jejuni infection of mice.
Germ-free C57BL/6 Il10 mice were colonized with conventional microbiota and infected with a single dose of C jejuni (10 colony-forming units/mouse) via gavage. Conventional microbiota were cultured under aerobic, microaerobic, or anaerobic conditions and orally transplanted into germ-free Il10 mice. Colon tissues were collected from mice and analyzed by histology, real-time polymerase chain reaction, and immunoblotting. Fecal microbiota and bile acids were analyzed with 16S sequencing and high-performance liquid chromatography with mass spectrometry, respectively.
Introduction of conventional microbiota reduced C jejuni-induced colitis in previously germ-free Il10 mice, independent of fecal load of C jejuni, accompanied by reduced activation of mammalian target of rapamycin. Microbiota transplantation and 16S ribosomal DNA sequencing experiments showed that Clostridium XI, Bifidobacterium, and Lactobacillus were enriched in fecal samples from mice colonized with microbiota cultured in anaerobic conditions (which reduce colitis) compared with mice fed microbiota cultured under aerobic conditions (susceptible to colitis). Oral administration to mice of microbiota-derived secondary bile acid sodium deoxycholate, but not ursodeoxycholic acid or lithocholic acid, reduced C jejuni-induced colitis. Depletion of secondary bile acid-producing bacteria with antibiotics that kill anaerobic bacteria (clindamycin) promoted C jejuni-induced colitis in specific pathogen-free Il10 mice compared with the nonspecific antibiotic nalidixic acid; colitis induction by antibiotics was associated with reduced level of luminal deoxycholate.
We identified a mechanism by which the microbiota controls susceptibility to C jejuni infection in mice, via bacteria-derived secondary bile acids.

2+
Survival of Anaerobic Fe Stress Requires the ClpXP Protease.strain MR-1 is a versatile bacterium capable of respiring extracellular, insoluble ferric oxide minerals under anaerobic conditions. The respiration of iron minerals results in the production of soluble ferrous ions, which at high concentrations are toxic to living organisms. It is not fully understood how Fe is toxic to cells anaerobically, nor is it fully understood how  is able to resist high levels of Fe Here we describe the results of a transposon mutant screen and subsequent deletion of the genes  and  in , which demonstrate that the protease ClpXP is required for anaerobic Fe resistance. Many cellular processes are known to be regulated by ClpXP, including entry into stationary phase, envelope stress response, and turnover of stalled ribosomes. However, none of these processes appears to be responsible for mediating anaerobic Fe resistance in  Protein trapping studies were performed to identify ClpXP targets in  under Fe stress, implicating a wide variety of protein targets.  strains lacking  or  also display increased sensitivity to Fe anaerobically, indicating Fe resistance may be a conserved role for the ClpXP protease system. Hypotheses regarding the potential role(s) of ClpXP during periods of high Fe are discussed. We speculate that metal-containing proteins are misfolded under conditions of high Fe and that the ClpXP protease system is necessary for their turnover. Prior to the evolution of cyanobacteria and oxygenic photosynthesis, life arose and flourished in iron-rich oceans. Today, aqueous iron-rich environments are less common, constrained to low-pH conditions and anaerobic systems such as stratified lakes and seas, digestive tracts, subsurface environments, and sediments. The latter two ecosystems often favor dissimilatory metal reduction, a process that produces soluble Fe from iron oxide minerals. Dissimilatory metal-reducing bacteria must therefore have mechanisms to tolerate anaerobic Fe stress, and studying resistance in these organisms may help elucidate the basis of toxicity.  is a model dissimilatory metal-reducing bacterium isolated from metal-rich sediments. Here we demonstrate a role for ClpXP, a protease system widely conserved in bacteria, in anaerobic Fe resistance in both  and .

Performance and stability of an expanded granular sludge bed reactor modified with zeolite addition subjected to step increases of organic loading rate (OLR) and to organic shock load (OSL).This paper shows the effect of organic shock loads (OSLs) on the anaerobic digestion (AD) of synthetic swine wastewater using an expanded granular sludge bed (EGSB) reactor modified with zeolite. Two reactors (R1 and R2), each with an effective volume of 3.04 L, were operated for 180 days at a controlled temperature of 30 °C and hydraulic retention time of 12 h. In the case of R2, 120 g of zeolite was added. The reactors were operated with an up-flow velocity of 6 m/h. The evolution of pH, total Kjeldahl nitrogen, chemical oxygen demand (COD) and volatile fatty acids (VFAs) was monitored during the AD process with OSL and increases in the organic loading rate (OLR). In addition, the microbial composition and changes in the structure of the bacterial and archaeal communities were assessed. The principal results demonstrate that the presence of zeolite in an EGSB reactor provides a more stable process at higher OLRs and after applying OSL, based on both COD and VFA accumulation, which presented with significant differences compared to the control. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis band profiles indicated differences in the populations of Bacteria and Archaea between the R1 and R2 reactors, attributed to the presence of zeolite.

Naproxen Is Transformed Via Acetogenesis and Syntrophic Acetate Oxidation by a Methanogenic Wastewater Consortium.Over-the-counter pharmaceutical compounds can serve as microbial substrates in wastewater treatment processes as well as in the environment. The metabolic pathways and intermediates produced during their degradation, however, are poorly understood. In this study, we investigate an anaerobic wastewater community that metabolizes naproxen via demethylation. Enriched cultures, established from anaerobic digester inocula receiving naproxen as the sole carbon source, transformed naproxen to 6-O-desmethylnaproxen (DMN) within 22 days. Continual enrichment and culture transfer resulted in consistent demethylation of naproxen with no loss of DMN observed. Methane was generated at 0.83 mmol per 1 mmol transformed naproxen. In addition to naproxen, the consortium readily demethylated syringic acid and vanillic acid. DNA analysis revealed a community of acetogenic bacteria and syntrophic acetate oxidizing archaea. Combined with the biotransformation data, this suggests the enriched consortium performs aromatic O-demethylation through a syntrophic relationship between specific acetogens, acetate oxidizers, and methanogens. The proposed model of carbon transfer through the anaerobic food web highlights the significance of linked community interactions in the anaerobic transformation of aromatic O-methyl compounds such as naproxen.

Simultaneous removal of atrazine and organic matter from wastewater using anaerobic moving bed biofilm reactor: A performance analysis.In this study, an anaerobic moving bed biofilm reactor (AMBBR) was designed to biodegrade atrazine under mesophilic (32 °C) condition and then it was evaluated for approximately 1 year. After biofilm formation, acclimation, and enrichment of microbial population within the bioreactor, the effect of various operation conditions such as changes in the concentration of influent atrazine and sucrose, hydraulic retention time (HRT), and salinity on the removal of atrazine and chemical oxygen demand (COD) were studied. In optimum conditions, the maximum removal efficiency of atrazine and COD was 60.5% and 97.4%, respectively. Various models were developed to predict the performance of atrazine removal as a function of HRT during continuous digestion. Also, coefficients kinetics was studied and the maximum atrazine removal rate was determined by Stover - Kincannon model (r = 0.223 kg/md). Increasing salinity up to 20 g/L NaCl in influent flow could inhibit atrazine biodegradation process strongly in the AMBBR reactor; whereas, the reactor could tolerate the concentrations less than 20 g/L easily. Results showed that AMBBR is feasible, easy, affordable, so suitable process for efficiently biodegrading toxic chlorinated organic compounds such as atrazine. There was no accumulation of atrazine in the biofilm and the loss of atrazine in the control reactor was negligible; this shows that atrazine removal mechanism in this system was due to co-metabolism.

Precision editing of the gut microbiota ameliorates colitis.Inflammatory diseases of the gastrointestinal tract are frequently associated with dysbiosis, characterized by changes in gut microbial communities that include an expansion of facultative anaerobic bacteria of the Enterobacteriaceae family (phylum Proteobacteria). Here we show that a dysbiotic expansion of Enterobacteriaceae during gut inflammation could be prevented by tungstate treatment, which selectively inhibited molybdenum-cofactor-dependent microbial respiratory pathways that are operational only during episodes of inflammation. By contrast, we found that tungstate treatment caused minimal changes in the microbiota composition under homeostatic conditions. Notably, tungstate-mediated microbiota editing reduced the severity of intestinal inflammation in mouse models of colitis. We conclude that precision editing of the microbiota composition by tungstate treatment ameliorates the adverse effects of dysbiosis in the inflamed gut.

The feasibility of putrescible components of municipal solid waste for biomethane production at Hyderabad, Pakistan.This study analyzes the feasibility of putrescible components of municipal solid waste (PCMSW) such as food waste (FW) and yard waste (YW) for methane production in Pakistan. The batch experiments have been conducted at two different inoculums to substrate ratios (ISR) by using various inoculums under mesophilic condition. The highest methane yield of FW and YW is achieved to be 428 Nml g volatile solids (VS) added and 304 Nml g VS added respectively by using buffalo dung inoculum at ISR-5. While, lowest methane yield of FW and YW is obtained as 236 Nml g VS added and 151Nml g VS added respectively by using effluent from a continuous stirrer tank reactor as inoculum at ISR-3. The first order decay model has been introduced, which gives best fit for methane potential of PCMSW with buffalo dung inoculum. Additionally, the feasibility of PCMSW in terms of power generation potential has been analyzed. About 60.63 million m/year energy can be generated by converting PCMSW into methane gas leading to power generation. The finding of this study concludes that the replacement of imported energy and reduction up to 1.62% in other primary energy sources would be achieved, if PCMSW are properly converted into energy through anaerobic digestion in Pakistan.

Electrohydrolysis pretreatment for enhanced methane production from lignocellulose waste pulp and paper mill sludge and its kinetics.A novel electrohydrolysis pretreatment enhances methane production from lignocellulose material during anaerobic digestion. A biochemical methane potential assay was carried out to determine the effect of direct current and the efficacy of electrohydrolysis pretreatment on biogas production. Methane yield was increased by 13.8%, to 301 ± 3 mL CH/g VS, when lignocellulosic waste was pretreated with electrohydrolysis. A net energy gain of 13,224 kJ was realized after electrohydrolysis pretreatment, which was 1.51 times higher than reported for thermal pretreatment. In addition, two kinetic models were used, including the modified Gompertz model to reproduce the experimental data. These finding support the potential for increased methane recovery from lignocellulosic waste using electrohydrolysis as a pretreatment.

Microbiota dysbiosis in inflammatory bowel diseases: in silico investigation of the oxygen hypothesis.Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), which include ulcerative colitis and Crohn's disease, cause chronic inflammation of the digestive tract in approximately 1.6 million Americans. A signature of IBD is dysbiosis of the gut microbiota marked by a significant reduction of obligate anaerobes and a sharp increase in facultative anaerobes. Numerous experimental studies have shown that IBD is strongly correlated with a decrease of Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and an increase of Escherichia coli. One hypothesis is that chronic inflammation induces increased oxygen levels in the gut, which in turn causes an imbalance between obligate and facultative anaerobes.
To computationally investigate the oxygen hypothesis, we developed a multispecies biofilm model based on genome-scale metabolic reconstructions of F. prausnitzii, E. coli and the common gut anaerobe Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron. Application of low bulk oxygen concentrations at the biofilm boundary reproduced experimentally observed behavior characterized by a sharp decrease of F. prausnitzii and a large increase of E. coli, demonstrating that dysbiosis consistent with IBD disease progression could be qualitatively predicted solely based on metabolic differences between the species. A diet with balanced carbohydrate and protein content was predicted to represent a metabolic "sweet spot" that increased the oxygen range over which F. prausnitzii could remain competitive and IBD could be sublimated. Host-microbiota feedback incorporated via a simple linear feedback between the average F. prausnitzii concentration and the bulk oxygen concentration did not substantially change the range of oxygen concentrations where dysbiosis was predicted, but the transition from normal species abundances to severe dysbiosis was much more dramatic and occurred over a much longer timescale. Similar predictions were obtained with sustained antibiotic treatment replacing a sustained oxygen perturbation, demonstrating how IBD might progress over several years with few noticeable effects and then suddenly produce severe disease symptoms.
The multispecies biofilm metabolic model predicted that oxygen concentrations of ∼1 micromolar within the gut could cause microbiota dysbiosis consistent with those observed experimentally for inflammatory bowel diseases. Our model predictions could be tested directly through the development of an appropriate in vitro system of the three species community and testing of microbiota-host interactions in gnotobiotic mice.

Characterization of Hydrolysis Kinetics in Staged Anaerobic Digestion of Wastewater Treatment Sludge.The hydrolysis of mixed primary and secondary sludges in two-stage anaerobic digestion was evaluated and compared with conventional single-stage digestion, using various temperature-phased configurations of M1-M2, M1-T3, T1-T2, and T1-M3. A dual hydrolysis model best described the hydrolysis in all tests. This model was also able to consistently estimate the readily and slowly fractions of particulate chemical oxygen demand (COD) of raw sludge used in the tests. The hydrolysis kinetic coefficients (Khyd_s and Khyd_r) estimated for the mesophilic digesters were significantly greater in the short hydraulic retention time (HRT) M1 digester than those of the extended HRT digesters. Conversely, at thermophilic temperatures only Khyd_r was greater in short HRT T1 digester when compared to the extended HRT digesters. The increased Khyd_r and reduced Khyd_s values due to staging effect were explained with surface reaction models and endogenous decay. The temperature dependency of Khyd_s and Khyd_r was also explored in the staged digesters.

Modelling sulfate reduction in anaerobic digestion: Complexity evaluation and parameter calibration.A comparative analysis of five different structures of sulfate reduction (SR) models for anaerobic digestion (AD) was conducted to evaluate their accuracy to provide model developers and users with better information to decide on the optimum degree of complexity. The models evaluated differ in terms of the number/type of sulfate reducing bacterial activities considered based on the electron donors used. A systematic calibration of the evaluated models against a large set of experimental data was also conducted using a very recent parameter calibration method. Results indicate that a simple model incorporating both acetate utilizing and hydrogen utilizing sulfate reducing bacterial activities (the M model) achieves a good balance between performance and complexity in terms of prediction errors against experimental data. All the models evaluated provided acceptable predictions except the model including only hydrogen utilizing sulfate reducing bacterial activity. More complex model structures are recommended only if required in specific experimental cases.

Live Faecalibacterium prausnitzii Does Not Enhance Epithelial Barrier Integrity in an Apical Anaerobic Co-Culture Model of the Large Intestine.Appropriate intestinal barrier maturation during infancy largely depends on colonization with commensal bacteria.  is an abundant obligate anaerobe that colonizes during weaning and is thought to maintain colonic health throughout life. We previously showed that  induced Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2) activation, which is linked to enhanced tight junction formation. Therefore, we hypothesized that  enhances barrier integrity, an important factor in appropriate intestinal barrier maturation. In order to test metabolically active bacteria, we used a novel apical anaerobic co-culture system that allows the survival of both obligate anaerobic bacteria and oxygen-requiring intestinal epithelial cells (Caco-2). The first aim was to optimize the culture medium to enable growth and active metabolism of  while maintaining the viability and barrier integrity, as measured by trans-epithelial electrical resistance (TEER), of the Caco-2 cells. This was achieved by supplementing the apical cell culture medium with bacterial culture medium. The second aim was to test the effect of  on TEER across Caco-2 cell layers. Live  did not improve TEER, which indicates that its benefits are not via altering tight junction integrity. The optimization of the novel dual-environment co-culturing system performed in this research will enable the investigation of new probiotics originating from indigenous beneficial bacteria.

Waste biorefineries - integrating anaerobic digestion and microalgae cultivation for bioenergy production.Commercialization of microalgal cultivation has been well realized in recent decades with the use of effective strains that can yield the target products, but it is still challenged by the high costs arising from mass production, harvesting, and further processing. Recently, more interest has been directed towards the utilization of waste resources, such as sludge digestate, to enhance the economic feasibility and sustainability of microalgae production. Anaerobic digestion for waste disposal and phototrophic microalgal cultivation are well-characterized technologies in both fields. However, integration of anaerobic digestion and microalgal cultivation to achieve substantial economic and environmental benefits is extremely limited, and thus deserves more attention and research effort. In particular, combining these two makes possible an ideal 'waste biorefinery' model, as the C/N/P content in the anaerobic digestate can be used to produce microalgal biomass that serves as feedstock for biofuels, while biogas upgrading can simultaneously be performed by phototrophic CO fixation during microalgal growth. This review is thus aimed at elucidating recent advances as well as challenges and future directions with regard to waste biorefineries associated with the integration of anaerobic waste treatment and microalgal cultivation for bioenergy production.

Effect of different ammonia sources on aceticlastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogens.Ammonium chloride (NHCl) was usually used as a model ammonia source to simulate ammonia inhibition during anaerobic digestion (AD) of nitrogen-rich feedstocks. However, ammonia in AD originates mainly from degradation of proteins, urea and nucleic acids, which is distinct from NHCl. Thus, in this study, the inhibitory effect of a "natural" ammonia source (urea) and NHCl, on four pure methanogenic strains (aceticlastic: Methanosarcina thermophila, Methanosarcina barkeri; hydrogenotrophic: Methanoculleus bourgensis, Methanoculleus thermophilus), was assessed under mesophilic (37 °C) and thermophilic (55 °C) conditions. The results showed that urea hydrolysis increased pH significantly to unsuitable levels for methanogenic growth, while NHCl had a negligible effect on pH. After adjusting initial pH to 7 and 8, urea was significantly stronger inhibitor with longer lag phases to methanogenesis compared to NHCl. Overall, urea seems to be more toxic on both aceticlastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogens compared to NHCl under the same total and free ammonia levels.

Wet biowaste digestion: ADM1 model improvement by implementation of known genera and activity of propionate oxidizing bacteria.Anaerobic digestion of biowaste not only reduces environmental burden but also plays an important role for sustainable energy supply. For process optimization simulation based on the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) is commonly used. The ADM1 was extended to include the known three genera of propionate oxidizing bacteria (POB) and the two routes of propionate degradation (methyl-malonyl CoA and C6-dismutation pathway). Kinetic parameters for anaerobic propionate oxidation by single strains of the three propionate oxidizing genera were determined from defined tri-cultures of the POB with hydrogenotrophic and acetotrophic methanogens and implemented into ADM1. The such improved model ADM1xpro was evaluated with operational data from a full scale wet biowaste digestion plant. Predicted amounts of biogas and composition with ADM1xpro (2201 m³ d, 68.1 % CH and 31.9 % CO) correlated well with full-scale process data (2171 m³ d, 67.5 % CH and 31.9 % CO).

A model based on feature objects aided strategy to evaluate the methane generation from food waste by anaerobic digestion.A model based on feature objects (FOs) aided strategy was used to evaluate the methane generation from food waste by anaerobic digestion. The kinetics of feature objects was tested by the modified Gompertz model and the first-order kinetic model, and the first-order kinetic hydrolysis constants were used to estimate the reaction rate of homemade and actual food waste. The results showed that the methane yields of four feature objects were significantly different. The anaerobic digestion of homemade food waste and actual food waste had various methane yields and kinetic constants due to the different contents of FOs in food waste. Combining the kinetic equations with the multiple linear regression equation could well express the methane yield of food waste, as the R of food waste was more than 0.9. The predictive methane yields of the two actual food waste were 528.22 mL g TS and 545.29 mL g TS with the model, while the experimental values were 527.47 mL g TS and 522.1 mL g TS, respectively. The relative error between the experimental cumulative methane yields and the predicted cumulative methane yields were both less than 5%.

2+
Optimization of Fe supplement in anaerobic digestion accounting for the Fe-bioavailability.Fe is widely used as an additive in anaerobic digestion, but its bioavailability and the mechanism by which it enhances digestion are unclear. In this study, sequential extraction was used to measure Fe bioavailability, while biochemical parameters, kinetics model and Q-PCR (fluorescence quantitative PCR) were used to explore its mechanism of stimulation. The results showed that sequential extraction is a suitable method to assess the anaerobic system bioavailability of Fe, which is low and fluctuates to a limited extent (1.7 to -3.1wt%), indicating that it would be easy for Fe levels to be insufficient. Methane yield increased when the added Fe was 10-500mg/L. Appropriate amounts of Fe accelerated the decomposition of rice straw and facilitated methanogen metabolism, thereby improving reactor performance. The modified Gompertz model better fitted the results than the first-order kinetic model. Feasibility analysis showed that addition of Fe at ≤50mg/L was suitable.

Transformation of the Anticancer Drug Doxorubicin in the Human Gut Microbiome.Bacteria living in the human gut are implicated in the etiology of several diseases. Moreover, dozens of drugs are metabolized by elements of the gut microbiome, which may have further implications for human health. Here, we screened a collection of gut isolates for their ability to inactivate the widely used antineoplastic drug doxorubicin and identified a strain of Raoultella planticola as a potent inactivator under anaerobic conditions. We demonstrate that R. planticola deglycosylates doxorubicin to metabolites 7-deoxydoxorubicinol and 7-deoxydoxorubicinolone via a reductive deglycosylation mechanism. We further show that doxorubicin is degraded anaerobically by Klebsiella pneumoniae and Escherichia coli BW25113 and present evidence that this phenotype is dependent on molybdopterin-dependent enzyme(s). Deglycosylation of doxorubicin by R. planticola under anaerobic conditions is found to reduce toxicity to the model species Caenorhabditis elegans, providing a model to begin understanding the role of doxorubicin metabolism by microbes in the human gut. Understanding the in vivo metabolism of important therapeutics like doxorubicin by the gut microbiome has the potential to guide clinical dosing to maximize therapeutic benefit while limiting undesirable side effects.

Effect of three pretreatment techniques on the chemical composition and on the methane yields of Opuntia ficus-indica (prickly pear) biomass.Opuntia ficus-indica (OFI) is an emerging biomass that has the potential to be used as substrate in anaerobic digestion. The goal of this work was to investigate the effect of three pretreatment techniques (thermal, alkaline, acidic) on the chemical composition and the methane yield of OFI biomass. A composite experimental design with three factors and two to three levels was implemented, and regression modelling was employed using a total of 10 biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests. The measured methane yields ranged from 289 to 604 NmL/gVS; according to the results, only the acidic pretreatment (HCl) was found to significantly increase methane generation. However, as the experimental values were quite high with regards to the theoretical methane yield of the substrate, this effect still needs to be confirmed via further research. The alkaline pretreatment (NaOH) did not noticeably affect methane yields (an average reduction of 8% was recorded), despite the fact that it did significantly reduce the lignin content. Thermal pretreatment had no effect on the methane yields or the chemical composition. Scanning electron microscopy images revealed changes in the chemical structure after the addition of NaOH and HCl. Modelling of the cumulated methane production by the Gompertz modified equation was successful and aided in understanding kinetic advantages linked to some of the pretreatments. For example, the alkaline treatment (at the 20% dosage) at room temperature resulted to a μ (maximum specific methane production rate [NmLCH/(gVS·d)]) equal to 36.3 against 18.6 for the control.

Crystal structure of dipeptidyl peptidase III from the human gut symbiont Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron.Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron is a dominant member of the human intestinal microbiome. The genome of this anaerobe encodes more than 100 proteolytic enzymes, the majority of which have not been characterized. In the present study, we have produced and purified recombinant dipeptidyl peptidase III (DPP III) from B. thetaiotaomicron for the purposes of biochemical and structural investigations. DPP III is a cytosolic zinc-metallopeptidase of the M49 family, involved in protein metabolism. The biochemical results for B. thetaiotaomicron DPP III from our research showed both some similarities to, as well as certain differences from, previously characterised yeast and human DPP III. The 3D-structure of B. thetaiotaomicron DPP III was determined by X-ray crystallography and revealed a two-domain protein. The ligand-free structure (refined to 2.4 Å) was in the open conformation, while in the presence of the hydroxamate inhibitor Tyr-Phe-NHOH, the closed form (refined to 3.3 Å) was observed. Compared to the closed form, the two domains of the open form are rotated away from each other by about 28 degrees. A comparison of the crystal structure of B. thetaiotaomicron DPP III with that of the human and yeast enzymes revealed a similar overall fold. However, a significant difference with functional implications was discovered in the upper domain, farther away from the catalytic centre. In addition, our data indicate that large protein flexibility might be conserved in the M49 family.

Reducing agent can be omitted in the incubation medium of the batch in vitro fermentation model of the pig intestines.Over the past decade, in vitro methods have been developed to study intestinal fermentation in pigs and its influence on the digestive physiology and health. In these methods, ingredients are fermented by a bacterial inoculum diluted in a mineral buffer solution. Generally, a reducing agent such as Na2S or cysteine-HCl generates the required anaerobic environment by releasing metabolites similar to those produced when protein is fermented, possibly inducing a dysbiosis. An experiment was conducted to study the impact of two reducing agents on results yielded by such in vitro fermentation models. Protein (soybean proteins, casein) and carbohydrate (potato starch, cellulose) ingredients were fermented in vitro by bacteria isolated from fresh feces obtained from three sows in three carbonate-based incubation media differing in reducing agent: (i) Na2S, (ii) cysteine-HCl and (iii) control with a mere saturation with CO2 and devoid of reducing agent. The gas production during fermentation was recorded over 72 h. Short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) production after 24 and 72 h and microbial composition of the fermentation broth after 24 h were compared between ingredients and between reducing agents. The fermentation residues after 24 h were also evaluated in terms of cytotoxicity using Caco-2 cell monolayers. Results showed that the effect of the ingredient induced higher differences than the reducing agent. Among the latter, cysteine-HCl induced the strongest differences compared with the control, whereas Na2S was similar to the control for most parameters. For all ingredients, final gas produced per g of substrate was similar (P>0.10) for the three reducing agents whereas the maximum rate of gas production (R max) was reduced (P0.10) after 24 h of fermentation with Na2S and in the control without reducing agent. Molar ratios of branched chain-fatty acids were higher (P<0.05) for protein (36.5% and 9.7% for casein and soybean proteins, respectively) than for carbohydrate (<4%) ingredients. Only fermentation residues of casein showed a possible cytotoxic effect regardless of the reducing agent (P<0.05). Concerning the microbial composition of the fermentation broth, most significant differences in phyla and in genera ascribable to the reducing agent were found with potato starch and casein. In conclusion, saturating the incubation media with CO2 seems sufficient to generate a suitable anaerobic environment for intestinal microbes and the use of a reducing agent can be omitted.

Carbon-to-nitrogen and substrate-to-inoculum ratio adjustments can improve co-digestion performance of microalgal biomass obtained from domestic wastewater treatment.This study comparatively evaluated the effect of co-substrates on anaerobic digestion (AD) and biochemical methane potential of wastewater-derived microalgal biomass, with an emphasis on carbon-to-nitrogen (C:N) and substrate-to-inoculum (S:I) ratios. A semi-continuous photobioreactor was inoculated with Chlorella vulgaris and the nutrient recovery potential was investigated. Derived microalgal slurry was subjected to AD in the absence and presence of co-substrates; model kitchen waste (MKW) and waste activated sludge (WAS). The results revealed that up to 99.6% of nitrogen and 91.2% of phosphorus could be removed from municipal wastewater using C. vulgaris. Biomethane yields were improved by co-digestion with both MKW and WAS. The maximum biomethane yield was observed as 523 ± 25.6 ml CHg VS, by microalgal biomass and MKW co-digestion in 50:50 ratio, at an initial chemical oxygen demand (COD) concentration of 14.0 ± 0.1 g l, C:N ratio of 22.0, and S:I ratio of 2.2. The observed biomethane yield was 80.7% higher than that of the mono-digestion. The highest improvement achieved by 50:50 co-digestion of microalgal biomass and WAS was 15.5%, with biomethane yield of 272 ± 11.3 ml CHg VS at an initial COD concentration of 14.0 ± 0.1 g l, C:N ratio of 13.0, and S:I of 2.3.

Microbial characteristics analysis and kinetic studies on substrate composition to methane after microbial and nutritional regulation of fruit and vegetable wastes anaerobic digestion.This study firstly evaluated the microbial role when choosing the acclimated anaerobic granular sludge (AGS) and waste activated sludge (WAS) as microbial and nutritional regulators to improve the biomethanation of fruit and vegetable wastes (FVW). Results showed that the enriched hydrogenotrophic methanogens, and Firmicutes and Spirochaeta in the AGS were responsible for the enhanced methane yield. A synthetic waste representing the mixture of WAS and FVW was then used to investigate the influences of different substrate composition on methane generations. The optimal mass ratio of carbohydrate/protein/cellulose was observed to be 50:45:5, and the corresponding methane yield was 411mL/g-VS. Methane kinetic studies suggested that the modified Gompertz model fitted better with those substrates of carbohydrate- than protein-predominated. Parameter results indicated that the maximum methane yield and production rate were enhanced firstly and then reduced with the decreasing carbohydrate and increasing protein percentages; the lag phase time however increased continuously.

GM(1,N) method for the prediction of anaerobic digestion system and sensitivity analysis of influential factors.Anaerobic digestion process has been recognized as a promising way for waste treatment and energy recovery in a sustainable way. Modelling of anaerobic digestion system is significantly important for effectively and accurately controlling, adjusting, and predicting the system for higher methane yield. The GM(1,N) approach which does not need the mechanism or a large number of samples was employed to model the anaerobic digestion system to predict methane yield. In order to illustrate the proposed model, an illustrative case about anaerobic digestion of municipal solid waste for methane yield was studied, and the results demonstrate that GM(1,N) model can effectively simulate anaerobic digestion system at the cases of poor information with less computational expense.

Application of titration methods for measuring the contents of ammonium nitrogen and volatile fatty acids in agricultural biogas plants.The aim of our research was to assess a relatively new method of estimating ammonium nitrogen concentration in anaerobic digestion of plant substrates. We analysed our own data, received from the anaerobic digestion of maize silage (PM), as well as data published by Purser et al. (2014) who measured energy crops and slurry (ECS), and food waste (FW). In our study, the process was monitored for VFA content that was determined by gas chromatography, and for the content of ammonium nitrogen determined using the HACH LANGE LCK 303 cuvette test. We created polynomial regression models that bind the content of ammonium nitrogen with the volume of HSO used to titrate the sample from initial pH to pH 5. To estimate parameters of model, the PM dataset was used. The obtained models were positively validated using ECS and FW datasets. Our results confirmed the effectiveness of the Purser et al. method with an average absolute error of less than 223mgl of the VFA concentration, which was approximately 20-times less than the level that caused inhibition. In conclusion, we can affirm the suitability of using titration methods to assess the ammonium nitrogen content of bioreactors with a stable composition.

Biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests: Reducing test time by early parameter estimation.Biochemical methane potential (BMP) test is a key analytical technique to assess the implementation and optimisation of anaerobic biotechnologies. However, this technique is characterised by long testing times (from 20 to >100days), which is not suitable for waste utilities, consulting companies or plants operators whose decision-making processes cannot be held for such a long time. This study develops a statistically robust mathematical strategy using sensitivity functions for early prediction of BMP first-order model parameters, i.e. methane yield (B) and kinetic constant rate (k). The minimum testing time for early parameter estimation showed a potential correlation with the k value, where (i) slowly biodegradable substrates (k≤0.1d) have a minimum testing times of ≥15days, (ii) moderately biodegradable substrates (0.1<k<0.2d) have a minimum testing times between 8 and 15 days, and (iii) rapidly biodegradable substrates (k≥0.2d) have testing times lower than 7days.

The role of purified Clostridium difficile glucosylating toxins in disease pathogenesis utilizing a murine cecum injection model.Most pathogenic Clostridium difficile produce two major exotoxins TcdA and TcdB, in the absence of which the bacterium is non-pathogenic. While it is important to investigate the role of each toxin in the pathogenesis of C. difficile infection (CDI) using isogenic strains, it is impossible to precisely control the expression levels of individual toxins and exclude bacterial factors that may contribute to the toxins' effects during infection. In this study, we utilized an acute intestinal disease model by injecting purified toxins directly into mouse cecum after a midline laparotomy. We evaluated the physical condition of mice by clinical score and survival, and the intestinal tissue damage and inflammation by histology. Depending on the dose of the toxins, mice developed mild to severe colitis, experienced diarrhea or rapidly died. We found that both purified TcdA and TcdB were able to induce clinical disease, intestinal inflammation, and tissue damage that resembled CDI. TcdA was significantly faster in inducing intestinal inflammation and tissue damage, and was approximately five times more potent than TcdB in terms of inducing severe gut disease and death outcomes in mice. Moreover, we found that the two toxins had significant synergistic effects on disease induction. Comparison of the in vivo toxicity of TcdB from clinical strains revealed that TcdB from an epidemic RT 027 strain was more toxic than the others. Our study thus demonstrates that both TcdA and TcdB, independent of other factors from C. difficile bacterium, are able to cause disease that resembles CDI and highlights the importance of targeting both toxins for vaccines and therapeutics against the disease.

Metabolic reduction of resazurin; location within the cell for cytotoxicity assays.Resazurin is widely used as a metabolic indicator for living cells, however, there has been considerable debate in the literature with regards to the specific location in the cell where the non-fluorescent resazurin is reduced to the strongly fluorescent resorufin. This lack of clarity about the reduction site makes the use of resazurin reduction data in cytotoxicity studies difficult to interpret. In this study, E. faecalis, a Gram-positive and facultative anaerobic bacterial strain, and the most toxic chlorophenol, pentachlorophenol (PCP), were chosen as models for an anaerobe and toxicant, respectively. By studying the kinetics of resazurin reduction by E. faecalis after different treatments (cell disruption, bacterial filtration, and pre-exposure to toxicant), we confirmed that resazurin reduction to resorufin by live Gram-positive and facultative anaerobic bacterial cells can only happen intracellularly under anaerobic conditions, while resorufin reduction to dihydroresorufin can happen both intracellularly and extracellularly. Based on the understanding of these fundamental mechanisms, we suggest that resazurin reduction can be used as a quick bioassay for measuring cytotoxicity.

Ex vivo evaluation of degradation rates of metronidazole and olsalazine in distal ileum and in cecum: The impact of prandial state.Evaluate ex vivo the bacterial metabolism induced degradation rates of mesalamine (negative control), metronidazole and olsalazine in distal ileum and in cecum.
The contents of distal ileum and cecum were collected during colonoscopy under anaerobic conditions from twelve healthy adults in the fasted and in the fed state. To eliminate potential effects of enzymes that may exist in the fluid of lower intestine, each sample was ultracentrifuged and the precipitate was diluted with a volume of normal saline equivalent to that of the supernatant, after ultracentrifugation of intestinal contents from which the specific precipitate had been obtained. Degradation of the three model drugs in individual materials was evaluated anaerobically.
Mesalamine was stable in all cases. Degradation rates of metronidazole and olsalazine were higher in cecum than in distal ileum, only in the fasted state; no trend could be observed in the fed state. Degradation rates of metronidazole and olsalazine were decreased in the fed state in the cecum; no trend could be observed in distal ileum.
In the fasted state, bacterial activity is higher in cecum than in distal ileum. Food residues decrease bacterial metabolism degradation rates of drugs in cecum.

Modelling an industrial anaerobic granular reactor using a multi-scale approach.The objective of this paper is to show the results of an industrial project dealing with modelling of anaerobic digesters. A multi-scale mathematical approach is developed to describe reactor hydrodynamics, granule growth/distribution and microbial competition/inhibition for substrate/space within the biofilm. The main biochemical and physico-chemical processes in the model are based on the Anaerobic Digestion Model No 1 (ADM1) extended with the fate of phosphorus (P), sulfur (S) and ethanol (Et-OH). Wastewater dynamic conditions are reproduced and data frequency increased using the Benchmark Simulation Model No 2 (BSM2) influent generator. All models are tested using two plant data sets corresponding to different operational periods (#D1, #D2). Simulation results reveal that the proposed approach can satisfactorily describe the transformation of organics, nutrients and minerals, the production of methane, carbon dioxide and sulfide and the potential formation of precipitates within the bulk (average deviation between computer simulations and measurements for both #D1, #D2 is around 10%). Model predictions suggest a stratified structure within the granule which is the result of: 1) applied loading rates, 2) mass transfer limitations and 3) specific (bacterial) affinity for substrate. Hence, inerts (X) and methanogens (X) are situated in the inner zone, and this fraction lowers as the radius increases favouring the presence of acidogens (X,X, X) and acetogens (X,X). Additional simulations show the effects on the overall process performance when operational (pH) and loading (S:COD) conditions are modified. Lastly, the effect of intra-granular precipitation on the overall organic/inorganic distribution is assessed at: 1) different times; and, 2) reactor heights. Finally, the possibilities and opportunities offered by the proposed approach for conducting engineering optimization projects are discussed.

Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) for a real time monitoring of the biogas process.In this research project Near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) was applied to monitor the content of specific process parameters in anaerobic digestion. A laboratory scaled biogas digester was constantly fed every four hours with maize- and grass silage to keep a base load with an organic loading rate (OLR) of 2.5 kg oDM/m ∗ d. Daily impact loads with shredded wheat up to an OLR of 8 kg oDM/m ∗ d were added in order to generate peaks at the parameters tested. The developed calibration models are capable to show changes in process parameters like volatile fatty acids (VFA), propionic acid, total inorganic carbon (TIC) and the ratio of the volatile fatty acids to the carbonate buffer (VFA/TIC). Based on the calibration of the models for VFA and TIC, the values could be predicted with an R of 0.94 and 0.97, respectively. Moreover, the residual prediction deviations were 4.0 and 6.0 for VFA and TIC, respectively.

Influence of chemically enhanced primary treatment on anaerobic digestion and dewaterability of waste sludge.To lower energy consumption at a sewage treatment plant (STP), primary settling could be enhanced to direct more chemical oxygen demand (COD) to anaerobic digestion (AD) for increased biogas production and decreased aeration. Primary settling can be chemically enhanced by applying flocculation aids (FAs). FAs are refractory compounds that may affect all sludge treatment facilities. In this study the consequences are investigated of the application of FAs for chemically enhanced primary treatment (CEPT) on AD and subsequent dewatering of digested sludge in a conventional STP. It was found that FAs maintain their effect throughout all sludge processing facilities. With CEPT, more readily degradable solids were removed, resulting in a higher bio methane potential of the primary sludge. In AD, FAs lowered the viscosity; meanwhile an increased hydrolysis rate was observed. But FAs also partially irreversibly bound substrate in such way that it is not available for biological degradation anymore. In subsequent dewatering of digested sludge, a higher dry solids concentration was observed with CEPT. A computer simulation showed that in a conventional STP, CEPT would not be economically feasible. However, several benefits were discussed that can make CEPT an interesting option for future low COD/N-tolerant STPs with, for example, Anammox processes for N removal.

The influence of organic-binding metals on the biogas conversion of sewage sludge.The anaerobic conversion of sewage sludge to methane-rich biogas is an important bioenergy strategy that has been hindered by low conversion efficiency. The poorly understood mechanism of the influence of the key structural component in sludge is responsible for this. The influence of organic-binding metals (OBM), which account for a substantial proportion of metals in sludge, on biogas conversion of both sewage sludge and model sludge were explored in this study. It is observed that the net cumulative methane production of sludge decreased by 23% with the increase of OBM content, implying the crucial role of the OBM in anaerobic sludge digestion. Experimental results showed that the apparent activation energy of sludge organic solubilisation and the median particle size of sludge particulates increased with increasing OBM content, whereas the surface binding sites for enzymes decreased, indicating that the stability of the sludge floc was reinforced by the effect of OBM. Further analyses of the sludge structure revealed that a high OBM content (>2.5% total solids in the present study) compacted the sludge organic matter, restricted the molecular mobility and deteriorated the depolymerisation of the biopolymers by bridging and hydrogen-bonding interactions. This suggests that as a result of the effect of OBM, the hydrolysis and acidification of sludge particulate could be inhibited, resulting in poor biogas conversion. Moreover, it was further authenticated by the results from biochemical methane potential assay process. These findings can deepen the understanding of the role of OBM in sludge for biogas conversion and are important for the improvement of anaerobic sludge digestion.

Process performance and modelling of anaerobic digestion using source-sorted organic household waste.Three distinctive start-up strategies of biogas reactors fed with source-sorted organic fraction of municipal solid waste were investigated to reveal the most reliable procedure for rapid process stabilization. Moreover, the experimental results were compared with mathematical modeling outputs. The initial inoculations to start-up the reactors were 10, 50 and 100% of the final working volume. While a constant feeding rate of 7.8gVS/d was considered for the control reactor, the organic loading rate for fed-batch reactors with 10 and 50% inoculation was progressively increased during a period of 60 and 13days, respectively. The results clearly demonstrated that an exponentially feeding strategy, considering 50% inoculation relative to final volume, can significantly decrease the alternatively prolonged period to reach steady conditions, as observed by high biogas and methane production rates. The combination of both experimental and modelling/simulation succeeded in optimizing the start-up process for anaerobic digestion of biopulp under mesophilic conditions.

Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 Simulation of High Solids Anaerobic Digestion with Feasibility Study for El Gabal El Asfar Water Resource Recovery Facility.Performance of continuous mesophilic high solids anaerobic digestion (HSAD) was simulated using Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1), under different conditions (solids concentrations, sludge retention time (SRT), organic loading rate (OLR), and type of sludge). Implementation of ADM1, using the proposed biochemical parameters, proved to be a useful tool for the prediction and control of HSAD as the model predicted the behavior of the tested sets of data with considerable accuracy, especially for SRT more than 13 days. The model was then used to investigate the possibility of changing the existing conventional anaerobic digestion (CAD) units in Gabal El Asfar water resource recovery facility into HSAD, instead of establishing new CAD units, and results show that the system will be feasible. HSAD will produce the same bioenergy combined with a decrease in capital, operational, and maintenance costs.

Energy recovery from wastewater treatment plants through sludge anaerobic digestion: effect of low-organic-content sludge.During anaerobic digestion, low-organic-content sludge sometimes is used as feedstock, resulting in deteriorated digestion performance. The operational experience of conventional anaerobic digestion cannot be applied to this situation. To investigate the feature of low-organic-content sludge digestion and explain its intrinsic mechanism, batch experiments were conducted using designed feedstock having volatile solids (VS) contents that were 30-64% of total solids (TS). The results showed that the accumulative biogas yield declined proportionally from 173.7 to 64.8 ml/g VS added and organic removal rate decreased from 34.8 to 11.8% with decreasing VS/TS in the substrate. The oligotrophic environment resulting from low-organic-content substrates led to decreased microbial activity and a switch from butyric fermentation to propionic fermentation. A first-order model described the biogas production from the batch experiments very well, and the degradation coefficient decreased from 0.159 to 0.069 day, exhibiting a positive relation with organic content in substrate. The results observed here corroborated with data from published literature on anaerobic digestion of low-organic-content sludge and showed that it may not be feasible to recover energy from sludge with an organic content lower than 50% through mono digestion.

Robust assessment of both biochemical methane potential and degradation kinetics of solid residues in successive batches.The well-known batch assay test is used worldwide to determine the biochemical methane potential (BMP) of solid substrates in a single batch but its use to estimate the degradation kinetics may lead to underestimations. To overcome this problem, a different approach was carried out to characterize simultaneously both BMP of solid substrates and their degradation kinetics in successive batches, i.e. after an acclimation period. In a second step, a simple model was developed based on the methane production curve in batch mode for dividing the organic matter of the substrate into three sub-fractions according to their degradation rates (rapid, moderate and slow). The protocol developed was applied to 50 different substrates and a database was built. This database includes: the overall BMP (mL CH/g VS) and the degradation kinetics for each substrate, i.e. the global specific organic degradation rate (g VS/g VSS.d) along with the 3 sub-fractions and their specific degradation rates. The comparison with the BMP from the literature did not highlight significant difference with the BMP measured in this study. Furthermore, the degradation rates seem to be specific characteristics for each substrate and no clear correlation was found between the degradation kinetics and the kind of substrates. The information available in the database will be useful for the design and operation of anaerobic digesters: Optimization of the mix of co-substrates, choice of the applied OLR, simulation of methane production and of the rate of substrate degradation.

Investigation of the impact of trace elements on anaerobic volatile fatty acid degradation using a fractional factorial experimental design.The requirement of trace elements (TE) in anaerobic digestion process is widely documented. However, little is understood regarding the specific requirement of elements and their critical concentrations under different operating conditions such as substrate characterisation and temperature. In this study, a flask batch trial using fractional factorial design is conducted to investigate volatile fatty acids (VFA) anaerobic degradation rate under the influence of the individual and combined effect of six TEs (Co, Ni, Mo, Se, Fe and W). The experiment inoculated with food waste digestate, spiked with sodium acetate and sodium propionate both to 10 g/l. This is followed by the addition of a selection of the six elements in accordance with a 2 fractional factorial principle. The experiment is conducted in duplicate and the degradation of VFA is regularly monitored. Factorial effect analysis on the experimental results reveals that within these experimental conditions, Se has a key role in promoting the degradation rates of both acetic and propionic acids; Mo and Co are found to have a modest effect on increasing propionic acid degradation rate. It is also revealed that Ni shows some inhibitory effects on VFA degradation, possibly due to its toxicity. Additionally, regression coefficients for the main and second order effects are calculated to establish regression models for VFA degradation.

Optimization of semi-continuous anaerobic digestion of sugarcane straw co-digested with filter cake: Effects of macronutrients supplementation on conversion kinetics.Anaerobic digestion of sugarcane straw co-digested with sugarcane filter cake was investigated with a special focus on macronutrients supplementation for an optimized conversion process. Experimental data from batch tests and a semi-continuous experiment operated in different supplementation phases were used for modeling the conversion kinetics based on continuous stirred-tank reactors. The semi-continuous experiment showed an overall decrease in the performance along the inoculum washout from the reactors. By supplementing nitrogen alone or in combination to phosphorus and sulfur the specific methane production significantly increased (P<0.05) by 17% and 44%, respectively. Although the two-pool one-step model has fitted well to the batch experimental data (R>0.99), the use of the depicted kinetics did not provide a good estimation for process simulation of the semi-continuous process (in any supplementation phase), possibly due to the different feeding modes and inoculum source, activity and adaptation.

Implementation of the anaerobic digestion model (ADM1) in the PHREEQC chemistry engine.Anaerobic digestion is state-of-the-art technology to treat sludge and effluents from various industries. Modelling and optimisation of digestion operations can be advantageously performed using the anaerobic digestion model (ADM1) from the International Water Association. The ADM1, however, lacks a proper physico-chemical framework, which makes it difficult to consider wastewater of complex ionic composition and supersaturation phenomena. In this work, we present a direct implementation of the ADM1 within the PHREEQC chemistry engine. This makes it possible to handle ionic strength effects and ion-pairing. Thus, multiple mineral precipitation phenomena can be handled while resolving the ADM1. All these features can be accessed with very little programming effort, while retaining the full power and flexibility of PHREEQC. The distributed PHREEQC code can be easily interfaced with process simulation software for future plant-wide simulation of both wastewater and sludge treatment.

The effect of substrate/inoculum ratio on the kinetics of methane production in swine wastewater anaerobic digestion.Methane production from swine wastewater was evaluated by using sewage sludge as inoculum in three substrate to inoculum ratios (SIRs) named A (1:1), B (3:1) and C (6:1), with the objective to identify the proportion that optimizes the performance of the process. Duplicated batch bioreactors of 1 L capacity under mesophilic conditions were used to carry out the experiment. The highest biogas yield was observed in A treatment (554 ± 75 mL/g volatile solid (VS)). Cumulative methane production decreased from 382 ± 22 to 232 ± 5 mL/g VS when SIR increased from 1:1 to 6:1. The first-order model and the modified Gompertz equation were used to model the experimental cumulative methane yield giving adjustments with coefficients of determination of 96 and 99% respectively. The effect of the SIR was analysed based on the kinetic parameters of the Gompertz equation, which are methane production potential, maximum methane production rate and lag-phase time. The best performance in terms of the kinetic parameters was obtained for treatment A; however, treatment B could still ensure a stable process. The use of higher inoculum concentration generated 463.1% higher methane production rate and required 77.3% shorter adaptation time (lag phase) in the SIR range studied. When higher SIR was used (e.g. 14:1, previous work), it could be observed that the Gompertz equation also adjusted adequately the experimental data (R  > 0.99) although the lag-phase time did not remain in a linear relationship with SIR but exponentially above SIR = 6:1. These results demonstrated that when a low amount of inoculum was used, the adaptation time of microorganisms resulted much higher than expected delaying the methane production and extending the time needed to achieve adequate performance of the process.

Dose-response in a high density three-dimensional liver device with real-time bioenergetic and metabolic flux quantification.Real-time dose-response curves for fructose have been non-invasively determined in primary rat hepatocyte alginate spheroids cultured in a NMR-compatible fluidized-bed bioreactor. Using C-labeled glucose and glycine culture medium, fructose dose was compared to glucose uptake and glycogen synthesis rate using C NMR spectroscopy, and to ATP and fructose-1-phosphate concentration using P NMR spectroscopy. A highly efficient multicoaxial perfusion system maintains high density 3-D hepatocyte cultures, permitting C and P NMR spectral time courses with 1min time points. The perfusion system was turned off to demonstrate its efficiency and effect on the metabolites. Within 16min, glycogen plummeted, lactate became the largest C-glucose metabolite via anaerobic glycolysis, while glutathione was the largest C-glycine metabolite. ATP depletion and fructose-1-phosphate formation demonstrated a dose response with a 3h EC50 of 19mM±8.9mM and 17.4mM±3.7mM, respectively. Computational modeling of mass transfer corroborated experimental results and helped determine the optimal bioreactor loading densities, oxygen concentration, and perfusion rates to maintain physiologically-relevant nutrient levels. The total bioreactor plus perfusion loop has a dead volume of 2ml, and contains 5 million hepatocytes. Due to the non-invasive measurements, there is a reduction of animal tissue by an order-of-magnitude, depending on the number of time points in an experiment. This dynamic flux approach may have generic utility for dose-response studies monitoring multiple metabolic reactions in other primary mammalian cells, such as human, that have strict oxygen demands.

Computational and experimental analysis of organic degradation positively regulated by bioelectrochemistry in an anaerobic bioreactor system.Methane production was tested in membrane-less microbial electrolysis cells (MECs) under closed-circuit (R) and open-circuit (R) conditions, using glucose as a substrate, to understand the regulatory effects of bioelectrochemistry in anaerobic digestion systems. A dynamic model was built to simulate methane productions and microbial dynamics of functional populations, which were colonized in groups R and R during the start-up stage. The experiment results showed significantly greater methane production in R than R, the average methane production of R was 0.131 m/m/d, which was 1.4 times higher than that of R (0.055 m/m/d). The simulation results revealed that bioelectrochemistry had a significant influence on the abundance of microorganisms involved in acidogenesis and methanogenesis. The abundance of glucose-uptaking microorganisms was 87% of the total biomass in R without applied voltage, which was 20% higher than that in R (67%) when external voltages were applied between the anode and cathode. The abundance of hydrogenotrophic methanogens in R was 6% higher than that in R. The simulation results were verified through 16S rDNA high-throughput sequencing analysis. An electron balance analysis revealed that alteration of the acidogenesis type led to more acetate and hydrogen production from glucose fermentation, compared with the situation without bioelectrochemistry. An additional pathway from acetate to hydrogen was introduced by bioelectrolysis. These two factors resulted in significant enhancement of methane production in R. Bioelectrolysis process directly contributed to 26% of the total methane production after the start-up stage. When the applied voltages were cut down or decreased, R could maintain considerable methane productions, because the microbial communities and electron transfer pathways were already formed. Starting-up with high voltage, but operating under low voltage, could be an energy-favorable strategy for accelerating biogas production in bioelectro-anaerobic bioreactors.

Improving methane production and anaerobic digestion stability of food waste by extracting lipids and mixing it with sewage sludge.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of FW shows instability due to both the presence of high lipids and accumulation of volatile fatty acids. In this study, AD of food waste (FW) was optimized by removing lipids (LRFW) and by co-digestion with sewage sludge (1:1w/w on dry matter). The results obtained showed that lipids extraction increased FW methane yield from 400 to 418mL-gVS under mesophilic conditions (35°C) and from 426 to 531mL-gVS in thermophilic conditions (55°C). Two degradation phases (k and k) described FW and LRFW degradation. In the thermophilic, LRFW-k (0.1591d) was slightly higher than that of FW (k of 0.1543d) and in the second stage FW-k of 0.0552d was higher than that of LRFW (k of 0.0117d). The majority of LRFW was degraded in the first stage. FW and sewage sludge co-digestion reduced VFA accumulation, preventing media acidification and improving process stability.

Anaerobic digestion/co-digestion kinetic potentials of different agro-industrial wastes: A comparative batch study for C/N optimisation.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of different agro-industrial wastes and their co-digestion potential has been exhaustively studied in this research. It explores variation of feedstock characteristics such as biodegradability and methane potential during AD and anaerobic co-digestion (ACoD) of chicken litter (CL) with yoghurt whey (YW), organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW), hay grass (HG) and wheat straw (WS) under mesophilic conditions. Comparative performance was made at different loading concentrations (2%, 3% and 4% VS) with 1:2g/g VS of substrate to inoculum and carrying C/N ratio. Among different kinetic models, the AD of single substrates showed better fit to the modified Gompertz model (R: 0.93-0.997) indicating variation in lag phase and methane production rate depend on the substrate characteristics. During ACoD, the methane yield improved by 9-85% through the addition of two, three or four substrates due to the synergistic effect asa result of increased biodegradability and optimum conditions (such asC/N ratio). A surface (optimisation) model indicated that maximum methane production can be achieved by blending chicken litter (30-35%) and a (65-70%) mixture of yoghurt whey, hay and wheat straw with aC/N ratio of (26-27.5).

Simultaneous addition of zero-valent iron and activated carbon on enhanced mesophilic anaerobic digestion of waste-activated sludge.The performance of biogas generation and sludge degradation was studied under different zero-valent iron/activated carbon (ZVI/AC) ratios in detail in mesophilic anaerobic digestion of sludge. A good enhancement of methane production was obtained at the 10:1 ZVI/AC ratio, and the cumulative methane production was 132.1 mL/g VS, 37.6% higher than the blank. The methane content at the 10:1 ZVI/AC ratio reached 68.8%, which was higher than the blank (55.2%) and the sludge-added AC alone (59.6%). For sludge degradation, the removal efficiencies of total chemical oxygen demand (TCOD), proteins, and polysaccharides were all the highest at the 10:1 ZVI/AC ratio. The concentration of available phosphorus (AP) decreased after anaerobic digestion process. On the other hand, the concentrations of available nitrogen (AN) and available potassium (AK) increased after the anaerobic digestion process and showed a gradually decreasing trend with increasing ZVI/AC ratio. The concentrations of AN and AK were 2303.1-4200.3 and 274.7-388.3 mg/kg, showing a potential for land utilization.

Selection and transfer of an IncI1-tet(A) plasmid of Escherichia coli in an ex vivo model of the porcine caecum at doxycycline concentrations caused by crosscontaminated feed.The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of subtherapeutic intestinal doxycycline (DOX) concentrations (4 and 1 mg l ), caused by cross-contamination of feed, on the enrichment of a DOX-resistant commensal Escherichia coli and its resistance plasmid in an ex vivo model of the porcine caecum.
A DOX-resistant, tet(A)-carrying, porcine commensal E. coli strain (EC 682) was cultivated for 6 days in the porcine caecum model under different conditions (0, 1 and 4 mg l DOX). EC 682, other coliforms and anaerobic bacteria were enumerated daily. A selection of isolated DOX-resistant coliforms (n = 454) was characterized by rep-PCR clustering, PCR assays (Inc1 and tet(A)) and micro broth dilution susceptibility tests (Sensititre). Both 1 and 4 mg l DOX-enriched medium had a significantly higher selective effect on EC 682 and other resistant coliforms than medium without DOX. Transconjugants of EC 682 were isolated more frequently in the presence of 1 and 4 mg l DOX compared to medium without DOX.
Subtherapeutic intestinal DOX concentrations have the potential to select for DOX-resistant E. coli, and promote the selection of transconjugants in a porcine caecum model.
Cross-contamination of feed with antimicrobials such as DOX likely promotes the spread of antimicrobial resistance. Therefore, it is important to develop or fine-tune guidelines for the safe use of antimicrobials in animal feed and its storage.

Sequential Combination of Electro-Fenton and Electrochemical Chlorination Processes for the Treatment of Anaerobically-Digested Food Wastewater.A two-stage sequential electro-Fenton (E-Fenton) oxidation followed by electrochemical chlorination (EC) was demonstrated to concomitantly treat high concentrations of organic carbon and ammonium nitrogen (NH-N) in real anaerobically digested food wastewater (ADFW). The anodic Fenton process caused the rapid mineralization of phenol as a model substrate through the production of hydroxyl radical as the main oxidant. The electrochemical oxidation of NH by a dimensionally stable anode (DSA) resulted in temporal concentration profiles of combined and free chlorine species that were analogous to those during the conventional breakpoint chlorination of NH. Together with the minimal production of nitrate, this confirmed that the conversion of NH to nitrogen gas was electrochemically achievable. The monitoring of treatment performance with varying key parameters (e.g., current density, HO feeding rate, pH, NaCl loading, and DSA type) led to the optimization of two component systems. The comparative evaluation of two sequentially combined systems (i.e., the E-Fenton-EC system versus the EC-E-Fenton system) using the mixture of phenol and NH under the predetermined optimal conditions suggested the superiority of the E-Fenton-EC system in terms of treatment efficiency and energy consumption. Finally, the sequential E-Fenton-EC process effectively mineralized organic carbon and decomposed NH-N in the real ADFW without external supply of NaCl.

Effects of Clostridium perfringens iota toxin in the small intestine of mice.Iota toxin is a binary toxin solely produced by Clostridium perfringens type E strains, and is structurally related to CDT from C. difficile and CST from C. spiroforme. As type E causes hemorrhagic enteritis in cattle, it is usually assumed that associated diseases are mediated by iota toxin, although evidence in this regard has not been provided. In the present report, iota toxin intestinal effects were evaluated in vivo using a mouse model. Histological damage was observed in ileal loops treated with purified iota toxin after 4 h of incubation. Luminal iota toxin induced fluid accumulation in the small intestine in a dose dependent manner, as determined by the enteropooling and the intestinal loop assays. None of these changes were observed in the large intestine. These results suggest that C. perfringens iota toxin alters intestinal permeability, predominantly by inducing necrosis and degenerative changes in the mucosal epithelium of the small intestine, as well as changes in intestinal motility. The obtained results suggest a central role for iota toxin in the pathogenesis of C. perfringens type E hemorrhagic enteritis, and contribute to remark the importance of clostridial binary toxins in digestive diseases.

Modified ADM1 for high-rate anaerobic co-digestion of thermally pre-treated brewery surplus yeast wastewater.Co-digestion of surplus yeast with brewery wastewater is a potentially economical method for recovering energy, in the form of biogas, from this difficult to dispose of by-product. In this work a modified version of the ADM1 (Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1) was calibrated for an anaerobic digester fed with thermally pre-treated brewery yeast surplus wastewater. The model could predict changes to reactor methane production and reduction of biodegradable matter when fed with both pre-treated and untreated yeast surplus wastewater at varying loading rates. Model calibration focused on low temperature thermal pre-treatment as experiments into a combined thermal-alkaline pre-treatment did not show any significant improvements. A low temperature pre-treatment of 60 °C for 30 minutes was sufficient for yeast inactivation and allowed for stable and more efficient operation of the high-rate anaerobic digester over a period of 232 days. The low temperature and time for pre-treatment also reduced the evaporation of easily biodegradable residual ethanol present in the influent, while still maintaining a low level of suspended matter. Inline measurements of gas composition, production and effluent chemical oxygen demand were sufficient for reliable model calibration of these same outputs. More detailed characterization of influent and effluent is required if organic acid concentrations for pH control are needed.

Effects of organic composition on the anaerobic biodegradability of food waste.This work investigated the influence of carbohydrates, proteins and lipids on the anaerobic digestion of food waste (FW) and the relationship between the parameters characterising digestion. Increasing the concentrations of proteins and lipids, and decreasing carbohydrate content in FW, led to high buffering capacity, reduction of proteins (52.7-65.0%) and lipids (57.4-88.2%), and methane production (385-627 mLCH/g volatile solid), while achieving a short retention time. There were no significant correlations between the reduction of organics, hydrolysis rate constant (0.25-0.66d) and composition of organics. Principal Component Analysis revealed that lipid, C, and N contents as well as the C/N ratio were the principal components for digestion. In addition, methane yield, the final concentrations of total ammonia nitrogen and free ammonia nitrogen, final pH values, and the reduction of proteins and lipids could be predicted by a second-order polynomial model, in terms of the protein and lipid weight fraction.

Dose-Dependent Prebiotic Effect of Lactulose in a Computer-Controlled In Vitro Model of the Human Large Intestine.Lactulose, a disaccharide of galactose and fructose, used as a laxative or ammonia-lowering drug and as a functional food ingredient, enhances growth of  and  at clinically relevant dosages. The prebiotic effect of subclinical dosages of Lactulose, however, remains to be elucidated. This study analyses changes in the microbiota and their metabolites after a 5 days Lactulose treatment using the TIM-2 system, a computer-controlled model of the proximal large intestine representing a complex, high density, metabolically active, anaerobic microbiota of human origin. Subclinical dosages of 2-5 g Lactulose were used. While 2 g Lactulose already increased the short-chain fatty acid levels of the intestinal content, 5 g Lactulose were required daily for 5 days in this study to exert the full beneficial prebiotic effect consisting of higher bacterial counts of , , and  a rise in acetate, butyrate and lactate, as well as a decrease in branched-chain fatty acids, pH (suggested by an increase in NaOH usage), and ammonia.

Modeling de novo granulation of anaerobic sludge.A unique combination of mechanical, physiochemical and biological forces influences granulation during processes of anaerobic digestion. Understanding this process requires a systems biology approach due to the need to consider not just single-cell metabolic processes, but also the multicellular organization and development of the granule.
In this computational experiment, we address the role that physiochemical and biological processes play in granulation and provide a literature-validated working model of anaerobic granule de novo formation. The agent-based model developed in a cDynoMiCs simulation environment successfully demonstrated a de novo granulation in a glucose fed system, with the average specific methanogenic activity of 1.11 ml C H /g biomass and formation of a 0.5 mm mature granule in 33 days. The simulated granules exhibit experimental observations of radial stratification: a central dead core surrounded by methanogens then encased in acidogens. Practical application of the granulation model was assessed on the anaerobic digestion of low-strength wastewater by measuring the changes in methane yield as experimental configuration parameters were systematically searched.
In the model, the emergence of multicellular organization of anaerobic granules from randomly mixed population of methanogens and acidogens was observed and validated. The model of anaerobic de novo granulation can be used to predict the morphology of the anaerobic granules in a alternative substrates of interest and to estimate methane potential of the resulting microbial consortia. The study demonstrates a successful integration of a systems biology approach to model multicellular systems with the engineering of an efficient anaerobic digestion system.

Generalised approach to modelling a three-tiered microbial food-web.The complexity of the anaerobic digestion process has motivated the development of complex models, such as the widely used Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1. However, this complexity makes it intractable to identify the stability profile coupled to the asymptotic behaviour of existing steady-states as a function of conventional chemostat operating parameters (substrate inflow concentration and dilution rate). In a previous study this model was simplified and reduced to its very backbone to describe a three-tiered chlorophenol mineralising food-web, with its stability analysed numerically using consensus values for the various biological parameters of the Monod growth functions. Steady-states where all organisms exist were always stable and non-oscillatory. Here we investigate a generalised form of this three-tiered food-web, whose kinetics do not rely on the specific kinetics of Monod form. The results are valid for a large class of growth kinetics as long as they keep the signs of their derivatives. We examine the existence and stability of the identified steady-states and find that, without a maintenance term, the stability of the system may be characterised analytically. These findings permit a better understanding of the operating region of the bifurcation diagram where all organisms exist, and its dependence on the biological parameters of the model. For the previously studied Monod kinetics, we identify four interesting cases that show this dependence of the operating diagram with respect to the biological parameters. When maintenance is included, it is necessary to perform numerical analysis. In both cases we verify the discovery of two important phenomena; i) the washout steady-state is always stable, and ii) a switch in dominance between two organisms competing for hydrogen results in the system becoming unstable and a loss in viability. We show that our approach results in the discovery of an unstable operating region in its positive steady-state, where all three organisms exist, a fact that has not been reported in a previous numerical study. This type of analysis can be used to determine critical behaviour in microbial communities in response to changing operating conditions.

Modeling of acetate-type fermentation of sugar-containing wastewater under acidic pH conditions.In this study, a kinetic model was developed based on Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 to provide insights into the directed production of acetate and methane from sugar-containing wastewater under low pH conditions. The model sufficiently described the dynamics of liquid-phase and gaseous products in an anaerobic membrane bioreactor by comprehensively considering the syntrophic bioconversion steps of sucrose hydrolysis, acidogenesis, acetogenesis and methanogenesis under acidic pH conditions. The modeling results revealed a significant pH-dependency of hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis and ethanol-producing processes that govern the sucrose fermentative pathway through changing the hydrogen yield. The reaction thermodynamics of such acetate-type fermentation were evaluated, and the implications for process optimization by adjusting the hydraulic retention time were discussed. This work sheds light on the acid-stimulated acetate-type fermentation process and may lay a foundation for optimization of resource-oriented processes for treatment of food wastewater.

Biosurfactant-enhanced hydrogen production from organic fraction of municipal solid waste using co-culture of E. coli and Enterobacter aerogenes.The effect of biosurfactants (surfactin and saponin) on the hydrogen production from organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) was investigated using co-culture of facultative anaerobes Enterobacter aerogenes and E. coli. The biosurfactants were applied in the concentration ranges of 0.5, 1.0, 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5 and 5.0% each. Cumulative hydrogen production (P), maximum hydrogen production rate (Rmax) and lag phases (λ) were analyzed using modified Gompertz model. Results revealed that both the biosurfactants were effective in hydrogen production enhancement. The maximum cumulative hydrogen production of 743.5±14.4ml and 675.6±12.1ml and volumetric hydrogen production of 2.12L/L and 1.93L/L was recorded at 3.5% surfactin and 3.0% saponin respectively. Corresponding highest hydrogen yields were 79.2mlH/gCarbo and 72.0mlH/gCarbo respectively. Lag phase decreased from 12.5±2.0h at control to a minimum of 9.0±2.8h and 9.5±2.1h at 3.5% surfactin and 3.0% saponin respectively. Volatile fatty acid generation was increased with biosurfactants addition.

Intestinal calcium and bile salts facilitate germination of Clostridium difficile spores.Clostridium difficile (C. difficile) is an anaerobic gram-positive pathogen that is the leading cause of nosocomial bacterial infection globally. C. difficile infection (CDI) typically occurs after ingestion of infectious spores by a patient that has been treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics. While CDI is a toxin-mediated disease, transmission and pathogenesis are dependent on the ability to produce viable spores. These spores must become metabolically active (germinate) in order to cause disease. C. difficile spore germination occurs when spores encounter bile salts and other co-germinants within the small intestine, however, the germination signaling cascade is unclear. Here we describe a signaling role for Ca2+ during C. difficile spore germination and provide direct evidence that intestinal Ca2+ coordinates with bile salts to stimulate germination. Endogenous Ca2+ (released from within the spore) and a putative AAA+ ATPase, encoded by Cd630_32980, are both essential for taurocholate-glycine induced germination in the absence of exogenous Ca2+. However, environmental Ca2+ replaces glycine as a co-germinant and circumvents the need for endogenous Ca2+ fluxes. Cd630_32980 is dispensable for colonization in a murine model of C. difficile infection and ex vivo germination in mouse ileal contents. Calcium-depletion of the ileal contents prevented mutant spore germination and reduced WT spore germination by 90%, indicating that Ca2+ present within the gastrointestinal tract plays a critical role in C. difficile germination, colonization, and pathogenesis. These data provide a biological mechanism that may explain why individuals with inefficient intestinal calcium absorption (e.g., vitamin D deficiency, proton pump inhibitor use) are more prone to CDI and suggest that modulating free intestinal calcium is a potential strategy to curb the incidence of CDI.

Comparison of the anaerobic digestion at the mesophilic and thermophilic temperature regime of organic wastes from the agribusiness.An overall kinetic power law model has been successfully applied to study the anaerobic digestion of agricultural wastes. In this comparative kinetic study feed composition, organic load rate, residence time and process temperature have been systematically varied in an automated semi-continuous fermentation system to obtain the dependency of the rate of degradation as biogas production on the organic load rate and temperature. The results show that the overall reaction order depend only on the Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) at values between 3.6 and 3.7. The Arrhenius approach shows a shift in the rate determining step between the mesophilic and thermophilic temperature regimes. The activation energy at the temperature insensitive mesophilic regime is very small at 8.9 (kJ/mole), while the activation energy at the temperature sensitive thermophilic regime lies around 117 (kJ/mole).

Application of metabolic controls for the maximization of lipid production in semicontinuous fermentation.Acetic acid can be generated through syngas fermentation, lignocellulosic biomass degradation, and organic waste anaerobic digestion. Microbial conversion of acetate into triacylglycerols for biofuel production has many advantages, including low-cost or even negative-cost feedstock and environmental benefits. The main issue stems from the dilute nature of acetate produced in such systems, which is costly to be processed on an industrial scale. To tackle this problem, we established an efficient bioprocess for converting dilute acetate into lipids, using the oleaginous yeast  in a semicontinuous system. The implemented design used low-strength acetic acid in both salt and acid forms as carbon substrate and a cross-filtration module for cell recycling. Feed controls for acetic acid and nitrogen based on metabolic models and online measurement of the respiratory quotient were used. The optimized process was able to sustain high-density cell culture using acetic acid of only 3% and achieved a lipid titer, yield, and productivity of 115 g/L, 0.16 g/g, and 0.8 g⋅L⋅h, respectively. No carbon substrate was detected in the effluent stream, indicating complete utilization of acetate. These results represent a more than twofold increase in lipid production metrics compared with the current best-performing results using concentrated acetic acid as carbon feed.

Influence of the Fruit Juice Carriers on the Ability of Lactobacillus plantarum DSM20205 to Improve in Vitro Intestinal Barrier Integrity and Its Probiotic Properties.This study investigates the influence of tomato and feijoa juices as fermentable carriers of Lactobacillus plantarum (LP DSM20205) on the ability of the bacterium to improve intestinal barrier function using the trans-epithelial electrical resistance (TEER) assay in an apical anaerobic model. The survival of LP DSM20205 in different fruit juices during in vitro digestion, its adhesion capacity, and potential cytotoxic effect on Caco-2 cells were also studied. The results showed that carrier fruit juices have a significant influence on LP DSM20205 growth, survival during in vitro digestion, adhesion capacity, and TEER. All fermented samples were not cytotoxic to Caco-2 cells. The fermented tomato juice showed the largest improvement to intestinal barrier integrity. The digested fermented juices did not increase TEER, although the LP DSM20205 in these samples adhered well. Therefore, LP DSM20205 has the potential to be used as a probiotic in the production of fermented tomato and feijoa juices.

Generalized parameter estimation and calibration for biokinetic models using correlation and single variable optimisations: Application to sulfate reduction modelling in anaerobic digestion.In this work, a generalized method for the estimation of biokinetic parameters in anaerobic digestion (AD) models is proposed. The method consists of a correlation-based approach to estimate specific groups of parameters mechanistically, followed by a sensitivity-based hierarchical and sequential single parameter optimisation (SHSSPO) calibration method for the remaining groups of parameters. The method was evaluated to estimate and calibrate the parameter values for sulfate reduction processes when included into the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) and simulations were compared with experimental data from literature. Under the proposed method, a large number of biokinetic parameters, namely biomass yields, maximum specific uptake rates, and half saturation constants, can first be estimated using mechanistic correlations. This achieves a significant reduction in the number of parameters to be fitted to data. For the remaining parameters, a method is proposed based on the overall sensitivity and degree of ubiquity of each parameter to establish a hierarchy in a sequential single parameter optimisation against the experimental data. This approach aims at eliminating the uncertainty on optimality (and therefore parameter identification) associated to multivariable parameter calibration problems. The method was applied to the sulfate reduction related parameters and led to the hydrogen sulfide inhibition parameters as the only ones requiring optimisation against experimental data. Comparison of the proposed SHSSPO performance with that of multi-dimensional parameter optimisation methods shows a superior performance in terms of overall error and computation times. Also, final simulation results led to model predictions of similar, if not better, quality than those achieved by multivariable parameter optimisation methods. The experimental variables optimized for included liquid effluent concentrations of sulfur species and volatile fatty acids as well as effluent methane gas flow. Overall, the proposed parameter estimation and calibration method provides a deterministic step-by-step approach to parameter estimation that decreases identifiability uncertainty at a very low computational effort. The results obtained suggest that the method could be generically applied with similar success to other biokinetic models frequently used in wastewater treatment.

A novel free ammonia based pretreatment technology to enhance anaerobic methane production from primary sludge.This study proposed a novel free ammonia (FA, i.e., NH ) pretreatment technology to enhance anaerobic methane production from primary sludge for the first time. The solubilization of primary sludge was substantially enhanced following 24 h FA pretreatment (250-680 mg NH -N/L), by which the release of soluble chemical oxygen demand (SCOD) (i.e., 0.4 mg SCOD/mg VS added; VS: volatile solids) was approximately 10 times as much as that without pretreatment (i.e., 0.03 mg SCOD/mg VS added). Then, biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests demonstrated that FA pretreatment of 250-680 mg NH -N/L was capable of enhancing anaerobic methane production while the digestion time was more than 7 days. Model based analysis indicated that the improved anaerobic methane production was due to an increased biochemical methane potential (B ) of 8-17% (i.e., from 331 to 357-387 L CH /kg VS added), with the highest B achieved at 420 mg NH -N/L pretreatment. However, FA pretreatment of 250-680 mg NH -N/L decreased hydrolysis rate (k) by 24-38% compared with control (i.e., from 0.29 d to 0.18-0.22 d ), which explained the lower methane production over the first 7 days' digestion period. Economic analysis and environmental evaluation demonstrated that FA pretreatment technology was environmentally friendly and economically favorable. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2017;114: 2245-2252. © 2017 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Pretreatment optimization, process control, mass and energy balances and economics of anaerobic co-digestion of Arachis hypogaea (Peanut) hull and poultry manure.The study explored biogas production from the co-digestion of Arachis hypogaea hull and poultry droppings. Mechanical and thermo-alkaline pretreatments were applied to a sample of the mixture. Another sample was treated mechanically but without thermo-alkaline methods. Optimization was done using the Response Surface Methodology (RSM) and the Artificial Neural Networks (ANNs). The optimal values for each of the five major parameters optimized are Temperature of 32.00°C, pH of 7.62, Retention time of 30.00 day, Total solids of 12.00g/kg and Volatile solids of 10.00g/kg and the predicted biogas yield for RSM was 3903.1510m/kg TSfed and 3338.310m/kg TSfed for ANNs in the thermo-alkaline pretreated experiment. Gas chromatography show the CH and CO content of biogas generated to be 65.5±1.5%; 26±1% and 53±1%; 26±2% respectively. The co-digestion of peanut hull with poultry droppings and other energy-yielding substrates is further encouraged.

Fast ADM1 implementation for the optimization of feeding strategy using near infrared spectroscopy.Optimization of feeding strategy is an essential issue of anaerobic co-digestion that can be greatly assisted with simulation tools such as the Anaerobic Digestion Model 1. Using this model, a set of parameters, such as the biochemical composition of the waste to be digested, its methane production yield and kinetics, has to be defined for each new substrate. In the recent years, near infrared analyses have been reported as a fast and accurate solution for the estimation of methane production yield and biochemical composition. However, the estimation of methane production kinetics requires time-consuming analysis. Here, a partial least square regression model was developed for a fast and efficient estimation of methane production kinetics using near infrared spectroscopy on 275 bio-waste samples. The development of this characterization reduces the time of analysis from 30 days to a matter of minutes. Then, biochemical composition and methane production yield and kinetics predicted by near infrared spectroscopy were implemented in a modified Anaerobic Digestion Model n°1 in order to simulate the performance of anaerobic digestion processes. This approach was validated using different data sets and was demonstrated to provide a powerful predictive tool for advanced control of anaerobic digestion plants and feeding strategy optimization.

A comparative study of anaerobic fixed film baffled reactor and up-flow anaerobic fixed film fixed bed reactor for biological removal of diethyl phthalate from wastewater: a performance, kinetic, biogas, and metabolic pathway study.Phthalic acid esters, including diethyl phthalate (DEP), which are considered as top-priority and hazardous pollutants, have received significant attention over the last decades. It is vital for industries to select the best treatment technology, especially when the DEP concentration in wastewater is high. Meanwhile, anaerobic biofilm-based reactors are considered as a promising option. Therefore, in the present study, for the biological removal of DEP from synthetic wastewater, two different anaerobic biofilm-based reactors, including anaerobic fixed film baffled reactor (AnFFBR) and up-flow anaerobic fixed film fixed bed reactor (UAnFFFBR), were compared from kinetic and performance standpoints. As in the previous studies, only the kinetic coefficients have been calculated and the relationship between kinetic coefficients and their interpretation has not been evaluated, the other aim of the present study was to fill this research gap.
In optimum conditions, 90.31 and 86.91% of COD as well as 91.11 and 88.72% of DEP removal were achieved for the AnFFBR and UAnFFFBR, respectively. According to kinetic coefficients (except biomass yield), the AnFFBR had better performance as it provided a more favorable condition for microbial growth. The Grau model was selected as the best mathematical model for designing and predicting the bioreactors' performance due to its high coefficients of determination (0.97 < ). With regard to the insignificant variations of the calculated Grau kinetic coefficients () when the organic loading rate (with constant HRT) increased, it can be concluded that both of the bioreactors can tolerate high organic loading rate and their performance is not affected by the applied DEP concentrations.
Both the bioreactors were capable of treating low-to-high strength DEP wastewater; however, according to the experimental results and obtained kinetic coefficients, the AnFFBR indicated higher performance. Although the AnFFBR can be considered as a safer treatment option than the UAnFFFBR due to its lower DEP concentrations in sludge, the UAnFFFBR had lower VSS/TSS ratio and sludge yield, which could make it more practical for digestion. Finally, both the bioreactors showed considerable methane yield; however, compared to the UAnFFFBR, the AnFFBR had more potential for bioenergy production. Although both the selected bioreactors achieved nearly 90% of DEP removal, they can only be considered as pre-treatment methods according to the standard regulations and should be coupled with further technology.

Bacteriophage-prokaryote dynamics and interaction within anaerobic digestion processes across time and space.Bacteriophage-prokaryote dynamics and interaction are believed to be important in governing microbiome composition and ecosystem functions, yet our limited knowledge of the spatial and temporal variation in phage and prokaryotic community compositions precludes accurate assessment of their roles and impacts. Anaerobic digesters are ideal model systems to examine phage-host interaction, owing to easy access, stable operation, nutrient-rich environment, and consequently enormous numbers of phages and prokaryotic cells.
Equipped with high-throughput, cutting-edge environmental genomics techniques, we examined phage and prokaryotic community composition of four anaerobic digesters in full-scale wastewater treatment plants across China. Despite the relatively stable process performance in biogas production, phage and prokaryotic groups fluctuated monthly over a year of study period, showing significant correlations between those two groups at the α- and β-diversity levels. Strikingly, phages explained 40.6% of total variations of the prokaryotic community composition, much higher than the explanatory power by abiotic factors (14.5%). Consequently, phages were significantly (P < 0.010) linked to parameters related to process performance including biogas production and volatile solid concentrations. Association network analyses showed phage-prokaryote pairs were shallowly conserved since they were detected only within small viral clades.
Those results collectively demonstrate phages as a major biotic factor in controlling prokaryotic composition and process performance. Therefore, phages may play a larger role in shaping prokaryotic community dynamics and process performance of anaerobic digesters than currently appreciated.

Anaerobic digestion of amine-oxide-based surfactants: biodegradation kinetics and inhibitory effects.Recently, anaerobic degradation has become a prevalent alternative for the treatment of wastewater and activated sludge. Consequently, the anaerobic biodegradability of recalcitrant compounds such as some surfactants require a thorough study to avoid their presence in the environment. In this work, the anaerobic biodegradation of amine-oxide-based surfactants, which are toxic to several organisms, was studied by measuring of the biogas production in digested sludge. Three amine-oxide-based surfactants with structural differences in their hydrophobic alkyl chain were tested: Lauramine oxide (AO-R), Myristamine oxide (AO-R) and Cocamidopropylamine oxide (AO-cocoamido). Results show that AO-R and AO-R inhibit biogas production, inhibition percentages were around 90%. AO-cocoamido did not cause inhibition and it was biodegraded until reaching a percentage of 60.8%. Otherwise, we fitted the production of biogas to two kinetic models, to a pseudo first-order model and to a logistic model. Production of biogas during the anaerobic biodegradation of AO-cocoamido was pretty good adjusted to the logistics model. Kinetic parameters were also determined. This modelling is useful to predict their behaviour in wastewater treatment plants and under anaerobic conditions in the environment.

Influence of chemical composition on biochemical methane potential of fruit and vegetable waste.This study investigates the influence of chemical composition on the biochemical methane potential (BMP) of twelve different batches of fruit and vegetable waste (FVW) with different compositions collected over one year. BMP ranged from 288 to 516LCHkgVS, with significant statistical differences between means, which was explained by variations in the chemical composition over time. BMP was most strongly correlated to lipid content and high calorific values. Multiple linear regression was performed to develop statistical models to more rapidly predict methane potential. Models were analysed that considered chemical compounds and that considered only high calorific value as a single parameter. The best BMP prediction was obtained using the statistical model that included lipid, protein, cellulose, lignin, and high calorific value (HCV), with R of 92.5%; lignin was negatively correlated to methane production. Because HCV and lipids are strongly correlated, and because HCV can be determined more rapidly than overall chemical composition, HCV may be useful for predicting BMP.

Integration of methane removal in aerobic anammox-based granular sludge reactors.Combined partial nitritation-anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) processes have been widely applied for nitrogen removal from anaerobic digestion reject water. However, such streams also contain dissolved methane that can escape to the atmosphere, hence contributing to global warming. This study investigates the possibility of integrating methane removal in aerobic anammox-based granular sludge reactors, through modelling and simulation. Methane removal could be established through aerobic methane-oxidizing bacteria (MOB), denitrifying anaerobic methane-oxidizing bacteria (damoB, NO + CH → N + CO), and/or archaea (damoA, NO + CH → NO + CO). The simulation results demonstrated that the combined removal of nitrogen and methane was feasible at low dissolved oxygen conditions. Aerobic MOB were the main responsible microorganisms for removing methane. A sensitivity analysis of key kinetic parameters showed a shift in the methanotrophic populations depending on the most favourable parameters for each microbial group, while keeping high nitrogen and methane removal efficiencies. Possible methane stripping during aeration could be limited by increasing the depth within the reactor column at which aeration was supplied. Overall, the integration of methane removal in aerobic anammox-based granular sludge reactors seems to be a promising process option to reduce the carbon footprint from wastewater treatment.

In vitro approaches to assess the effects of açai (Euterpe oleracea) digestion on polyphenol availability and the subsequent impact on the faecal microbiota.A considerable proportion of dietary plant-polyphenols reach the colon intact; determining the effects of these compounds on colon-health is of interest. We hypothesise that both fibre and plant polyphenols present in açai (Euterpe oleracea) provide prebiotic and anti-genotoxic benefits in the colon. We investigated this hypothesis using a simulated in vitro gastrointestinal digestion of açai pulp, and a subsequent pH-controlled, anaerobic, batch-culture fermentation model reflective of the distal region of the human large intestine. Following in vitro digestion, 49.8% of the total initial polyphenols were available. In mixed-culture fermentations with faecal inoculate, the digested açai pulp precipitated reductions in the numbers of both the Bacteroides-Prevotella spp. and the Clostridium-histolyticum groups, and increased the short-chain fatty acids produced compared to the negative control. The samples retained significant anti-oxidant and anti-genotoxic potential through digestion and fermentation. Dietary intervention studies are needed to prove that consuming açai is beneficial to gut health.

Application of the Initial Rate Method in Anaerobic Digestion of Kitchen Waste.This article proposes a methane production approach through sequenced anaerobic digestion of kitchen waste, determines the hydrolysis constants and reaction orders at both low total solid (TS) concentrations and high TS concentrations using the initial rate method, and examines the population growth model and first-order hydrolysis model. The findings indicate that the first-order hydrolysis model better reflects the kinetic process of gas production. During the experiment, all the influential factors of anaerobic fermentation retained their optimal values. The hydrolysis constants and reaction orders at low TS concentrations are then employed to demonstrate that the first-order gas production model can describe the kinetics of the gas production process. At low TS concentrations, the hydrolysis constants and reaction orders demonstrated opposite trends, with both stabilizing after 24 days at 0.99 and 1.1252, respectively. At high TS concentrations, the hydrolysis constants and the reaction orders stabilized at 0.98 (after 18 days) and 0.3507 (after 14 days), respectively. Given sufficient reaction time, the hydrolysis involved in anaerobic fermentation of kitchen waste can be regarded as a first-order reaction in terms of reaction kinetics. This study serves as a good reference for future studies regarding the kinetics of anaerobic digestion of kitchen waste.

Bio-methane from an-aerobic digestion using activated carbon adsorption.There is an increasing global demand for carbon-neutral bio-methane from an-aerobic digestion (AD) to be injected into national gas grids. Bio-gas, a methane -rich energy gas, is produced by microbial decomposition of organic matter through an-aerobic conditions where the presence of carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulphide affects its performance. Although the microbiological process in the AD can be tailored to enhance the bio-gas composition, physical treatment is needed to convert the bio-gas into bio-methane. Water washing is the most common method for upgrading bio-gas for bio-methane production, but its large use of water is challenging towards industrial scale-up. Hence, the present study focuses on scale-up comparison of water washing with activated-carbon adsorption using HYSYS and Aspen Process Economic Analyzer. The models show that for plants processing less than 500 m/h water scrubbing was cost effective compared with activated carbon. However, against current fossil natural-gas cost of about 1 p/kWh in the UK both relied heavily on governmental subsidies to become economically feasible. For plants operating at 1000 m/hr, the treatment costs were reduced to below 1.5 p/kWh for water scrubbing and 0.9 p/kWh for activated carbon where the main benefits of activated carbon were lower capital and operating costs and virtually no water losses. It is envisioned that this method can significantly aid the production of sustainable bio-methane.

Characteristics of on-demand biogas production by using sugar beet silage.On-demand electricity generation can be achieved by just-in-time biogas production instantly utilized in co-generation units. For this goal, easily degradable substrates like sugar beet silage have a high potential. Potential for on-demand biogas production from co-digestion of sugar beet silage (SS) with grass silage (GS) was evaluated in two experiments at organic loading rates (OLRs) of 1.5 kgVS m day and 2.5 kgVS m day, respectively. Each experiment was fed with intermittent feeding system at 8 hrs interval at the same feedstock ratios (volatile solids based) of GS:SS-1:0, 3:1 and 1:3, respectively. Modelling by Gaussian equation was performed in order to understand the effects of SS on biogas production. Addition of sugar beet silage led to maximum biogas production within a short time, but it differed significantly depending on feedstock ratios and OLRs, respectively. At OLR 1.5 kgVS m day, during mono fermentation of grass silage maximum biogas production rate of 0.27 l hr was reached at 2.74 hrs. Production rate did not change at feedstock ratio of GS:SS-3:1 but increased to 0.64 l hr at GS:SS-1:3 within a shorter time span (1.58 hrs). On the contrary, at OLR of 2.5 kgVS m day time span between feedstock input and maximum biogas production did not differ significantly (p > 0.05) among the reactors. Biogas production rates were 0.60 l hr within 2.27 hrs and 0.82 l hr within 2.30 hrs at GS:SS-3:1 and GS:SS-1:3, respectively. Surprisingly, there was no time lag between maximum biogas and methane production rates, irrespectively of OLR. This implies that once the whole microbial community is adapted to intermittent substrate input, the metabolic products are instantly utilized through the all steps of anaerobic substrate degradation. Applying this finding opens new perspectives for on-demand biogas energy production.

Effect of magnetite powder on anaerobic co-digestion of pig manure and wheat straw.This study investigated the effects of different amounts of magnetite powder (i.e., 0g, 1.5g, 3g, 4.5g, 6g) on the anaerobic co-digestion of pig manure (PM) and wheat straw (WS). The variations in pH, alkalinity, cellulase activity (CEA), dehydrogenase activity (DHA) and methane production, were analyzed by phases. Correlation of the activities of the two enzymes with methane production was also analyzed, and the Gompertz model was used to evaluate the efficiency of anaerobic digestion (AD) with the addition of magnetite powder. The results showed that magnetite powder had significant effects on the anaerobic co-digestion of PM and WS. The maximum total methane production with the addition of 3g of magnetite powder was 195mL/g total solids (TS), an increase of 72.1%. The CEA and DHA increased with magnetite powder in the ranges of 1.5-4.5g, 1.5-6g, respectively, while the methane production showed a better correlation with DHA than with CEA. Using the Gompertz model, the efficiency of AD was optimal when adding 3g magnetite powder, with higher methane production potential (206mL/g TS), shorter lag-phase time (14.9d) and shorter AD period (44d).

Distinct roles for dietary lipids and Porphyromonas gingivalis infection on atherosclerosis progression and the gut microbiota.Mounting evidence in humans supports an etiological role for the microbiota in inflammatory atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a progressive disease characterized by accumulation of inflammatory cells and lipids in vascular tissue. While retention of lipoprotein into the sub-endothelial vascular layer is believed to be the initiating stimulus leading to the development of atherosclerosis, activation of multiple pathways related to vascular inflammation and endothelial dysfunction sustain the process by stimulating recruitment of leukocytes and immune cells into the sub-endothelial layer. The Gram-negative oral pathogen Porphyromonas gingivalis has been associated with the development and acceleration of atherosclerosis in humans and these observations have been validated in animal models. It has been proposed that common mechanisms of immune signaling link stimulation by lipids and pathogens to vascular inflammation. Despite the common outcome of P. gingivalis and lipid feeding on atherosclerosis progression, we established that these pro-atherogenic stimuli induced distinct gene signatures in the ApoE mouse model of atherosclerosis. In this study, we further defined the distinct roles of dietary lipids and P. gingivalis infection on atherosclerosis progression and the gut microbiota. We demonstrate that diet-induced lipid lowering resulted in less atherosclerotic plaque in ApoE mice compared to ApoE mice continuously fed a Western diet. However, the effect of diet-induced lipid lowering on plaque accumulation was blunted by P. gingivalis infection. Using principal component analysis and hierarchical clustering, we demonstrate that dietary intervention as well as P. gingivalis infection result in distinct bacterial communities in fecal and cecal samples of ApoE mice as compared to ApoE mice continuously fed either a Western diet or a normal chow diet. Collectively, we identified distinct microbiota changes accompanying atherosclerotic plaque, suggesting a future avenue for investigation on the impact of the gut microbiota, diet, and P. gingivalis infection on atherosclerosis.

Inhibitory Effect of Coumarin on Syntrophic Fatty Acid-Oxidizing and Methanogenic Cultures and Biogas Reactor Microbiomes.Coumarins are widely found in plants as natural constituents having antimicrobial activity. When considering plants that are rich in coumarins for biogas production, adverse effects on microorganisms driving the anaerobic digestion process are expected. Furthermore, coumarin derivatives, like warfarin, which are used as anticoagulating medicines, are found in wastewater, affecting its treatment. Coumarin, the structure common to all coumarins, inhibits the anaerobic digestion process. However, the details of this inhibition are still elusive. Here, we studied the impact of coumarin on acetogenesis and methanogenesis. First, coumarin was applied at four concentrations between 0.25 and 1 g · liter to pure cultures of the methanogens  and , which resulted in up to 25% less methane production. Acetate production of syntrophic propionate- and butyrate-degrading cultures of  and  was inhibited by 72% at a coumarin concentration of 1 g · liter Coumarin also inhibited acetogenesis and acetoclastic methanogenesis in a complex biogas reactor microbiome. When a coumarin-adapted microbiome was used, acetogenesis and methanogenesis were not inhibited. According to amplicon sequencing of bacterial 16S rRNA genes and  genes, the communities of the two microbiomes were similar, although  was more abundant and  less abundant in the coumarin-adapted than in the nonadapted microbiome. Our results suggest that well-dosed feeding with coumarin-rich feedstocks to full-scale biogas reactors while keeping the coumarin concentrations below 0.5 g · liter will allow adaptation to coumarins by structural and functional community reorganization and coumarin degradation. Coumarins from natural and anthropogenic sources have an inhibitory impact on the anaerobic digestion process. Here, we studied in detail the adverse effects of the model compound coumarin on acetogenesis and methanogenesis, which are two important steps of the anaerobic digestion process. Coumarin concentrations lower than 0.5 g · liter had only a minor impact. Even though similar inhibitory effects can be assumed for coumarin derivatives, little effects on the anaerobic treatment of wastewater are expected where concentrations of coumarin derivatives are lower than 0.5 g · liter However, when full-scale reactors are fed with coumarin-rich feedstocks, the biogas processes might be inhibited. Hence, these feedstocks should be utilized in a well-dosed manner or after adaptation of the microbial community.

Long-chain fatty acid feeding frequency in anaerobic codigestion impacts syntrophic community structure and biokinetics.This study investigated the impacts of long-chain fatty acid (LCFA) feeding frequencies on microbial community structure, bioconversion kinetics, and process stability during anaerobic codigestion. Parallel laboratory-scale anaerobic codigesters fed with dairy cattle manure were either pulse-fed every two days or continuously-fed daily, respectively, with oleate (C) in incremental step increases over 200 days up to 64% of the influent chemical oxygen demand (COD). The effluent acetate concentration exceeded 3000 mg/L in the continuous-fed codigester at the highest oleate loading rate, but remained below 100 mg/L in the pulse-fed codigester at the end of its 48-hr oleate feed cycle. Maximum substrate conversion rates of oleate (q) and acetate (q) were significantly higher in the pulse-fed codigester compared to the continuous-fed codigester. 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing showed that Bacteria and Archaea community profiles diverged based on the codigester LCFA feeding pattern and loading rate. LCFA-degrading Syntrophomonas bacteria were significantly enriched in both LCFA codigesters relative to the control digester. The pulse-fed codigester had the highest community fraction of Syntrophomonas 16S rRNA genes by the end of the experiment with 43% of Bacteria amplicon sequences. q and q values were both significantly correlated to absolute concentrations of Syntrophomonas and Methanosaeta 16S rRNA genes, respectively. Multiple-linear regression models based on the absolute abundance of Syntrophomonas and Methanosaeta taxa provided improved predictions of oleate and acetate bioconversion kinetics, respectively. These results collectively suggest that pulse feeding rather than continuous feeding LCFA during anaerobic codigestion selected for higher microbial bioconversion kinetics and functional stability, which were related to changes in the physiological diversity and adaptive capacity of syntrophic and methanogenic communities.

Comparison of the methane production potential and biodegradability of kitchen waste from different sources under mesophilic and thermophilic conditions.The methane production potential of kitchen waste (KW) obtained from different sources was compared through mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic digestion. The methane yields (MYs) obtained with the same KW sample under different temperatures were similar, whereas the MYs obtained with different samples differed significantly. The highest MY obtained in S7 was 54%-60% higher than the lowest MY in S3. The modified Gompertz model was utilized to simulate the methane production process. The maximum production rate of methane under thermophilic conditions was 2%-86% higher than that under mesophilic conditions. The characteristics of different KW samples were studied. In the distribution of total chemical oxygen demand, the diversity of organic compounds of KW was the most dominant factor that affected the potential MYs of KW. The effect of the C/N and C/P ratios or the concentration of metal ions was insignificant. Two typical methods to calculate the theoretical MY (TMY) were compared, the organic composition method can simulate methane production more precisely than the elemental analysis method. Significant linear correlations were found between TMY and MYs under mesophilic and thermophilic conditions. The organic composition method can thus be utilized as a fast technique to predict the methane production potential of KW.

Effects of the support material addition on the hydrodynamic behavior of an anaerobic expanded granular sludge bed reactor.As a support material, zeolite can be used to promote the granulation process due to its high settable property and the ability to retain biomass on its surface. The present paper reports on the influence of zeolite addition on the hydrodynamic behavior of an expanded granular sludge bed reactor (EGSB). Different models were applied to fit the flow pattern and to compare EGSB hydrodynamic performance with and without the addition of zeolite. The experimental data fit the tanks in a series model for zeolite bed height of 5cm and upflow velocity of 6m/hr. Higher axial dispersion degree (D/uL) was obtained at lower heights of zeolite. The real hydraulic retention time (HRTr) was increased with both increased zeolite bed height and increased upflow velocity. The short-circuit results for 5cm of zeolite bed and 6, 8 and 10m/hr upflow velocity were 0.3, 0.24 and 0.19 respectively, demonstrating the feasibility of using zeolite for a proper hydrodynamic environment to operate the EGSB reactor. The presence of zeolite resulted in the higher percentage values of dead zones, ranging from 12% to 24%. Zeolite addition exerted a positive effect on the hydrodynamics pattern for this technology being advantageous for the anaerobic process because of its possible contribution to better biofilm agglomeration, granule formation and substrate-microorganism contact.

Analysis of the Anti-Cancer Effects of Cincau Extract (Premna oblongifolia Merr) and Other Types of Non-Digestible Fibre Using Faecal Fermentation Supernatants and Caco-2 Cells as a Model of the Human Colon.Green cincau ( Merr) is an Indonesian food plant with a high dietary fibre content. Research has shown that dietary fibre mixtures may be more beneficial for colorectal cancer prevention than a single dietary fibre type. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of green cincau extract on short chain fatty acid (SCFA) production in anaerobic batch cultures inoculated with human faecal slurries and to compare these to results obtained using different dietary fibre types (pectin, inulin, and cellulose), singly and in combination. Furthermore, fermentation supernatants (FSs) were evaluated in Caco-2 cells for their effect on cell viability, differentiation, and apoptosis. Cincau increased total SCFA concentration by increasing acetate and propionate, but not butyrate concentration. FSs from all dietary fibre sources, including cincau, reduced Caco-2 cell viability. However, the effects of all FSs on cell viability, cell differentiation, and apoptosis were not simply explainable by their butyrate content. In conclusion, products of fermentation of cincau extracts induced cell death, but further work is required to understand the mechanism of action. This study demonstrates for the first time that this Indonesian traditional source of dietary fibre may be protective against colorectal cancer.

A systematic methodology to extend the applicability of a bioconversion model for the simulation of various co-digestion scenarios.Detailed simulation of anaerobic digestion (AD) requires complex mathematical models and the optimization of numerous model parameters. By performing a systematic methodology and identifying parameters with the highest impact on process variables in a well-established AD model, its applicability was extended to various co-digestion scenarios. More specifically, the application of the step-by-step methodology led to the estimation of a general and reduced set of parameters, for the simulation of scenarios where either manure or wastewater were co-digested with different organic substrates. Validation of the general parameter set involved the simulation of laboratory-scale data from three continuous co-digestion experiments, treating mixtures of different organic residues either at thermophilic or mesophilic conditions. Evaluation of the results showed that simulations using the general parameter set fitted experimental data quite well, indicating that it offers a reliable reference point for future simulations of anaerobic co-digestion scenarios.

Performance evaluation of a novel anaerobic digestion operation process for treating high-solids content chicken manure: Effect of reduction of the hydraulic retention time at a constant organic loading rate.A novel feeding strategy was adopted in this study and the effect of reduction in hydraulic retention time (HRT) on the anaerobic digestion of chicken manure (CM) with a constant organic loading rate of 6.0gVS/L/d was investigated. The lab-scale CSTR was operated at 38°C and HRT was reduced from 52days to 5days. At HRT of 20-45days, the reactor was relatively stable in terms of the volumetric biogas production rates and specific biogas production (SBP), which were 2.2-2.4L/L/d and 338.3-418.7mL/gVS, respectively. However, process instability and VFA accumulation occurred when the HRT was reduced to 10days due to excess microbes washout. The reduction in HRT to 5days caused SBP to decrease to 198.7mL/gVS and the acetic acid content to exceed 6000mg/L. The biomass balance model showed that the biomass concentration at HRT of 20-52days (0.473-0.615gVSS/L) was notably higher than that at HRT of 5-10days (0.173gVSS/L).

Effect of microscale ZVI/magnetite on methane production and bioavailability of heavy metals during anaerobic digestion of diluted pig manure.Low methane production and high levels of heavy metal in pig slurries limit the feasibility of anaerobic digestion of pig manure. In this study, changes in the methane production and bioavailability of heavy metals in the anaerobic digestion of diluted pig manure were evaluated using single and combined action of microscale zero-valence iron (ZVI) and magnetite. After 30 days of anaerobic digestion, the methane yield ranged from 246.9 to 334.5 mL/g VS added, which increased by 20-26% in the group added with microscale ZVI and/or magnetite relative to that in the control group. Results of the first-order kinetic model revealed that addition of microscale ZVI and/or magnetite increased the biogas production potential, rather than the biogas production rate constant. These treatments also changed the distribution of chemical fractions for heavy metal. The addition of ZVI decreased the bioavailability of Cu and Zn in the solid digested residues. Moreover, a better performance was observed in the combined action of microscale ZVI and magnetite, and the ZVI anaerobic corrosion end-product, magnetite, might help enhance methane production through direct interspecies electron transfer in ZVI-anaerobic digestion process.

Removal of sulfamethoxazole (SMX) and sulfapyridine (SPY) from aqueous solutions by biochars derived from anaerobically digested bagasse.This study explored the sorption of sulfamethoxazole (SMX) and sulfapyridine (SPY) onto biochars produced from raw and anaerobically digested bagasse. Initial evaluation of six bagasse biochars showed that digested bagasse biochar prepared at 600 °C (DBG600) was the best adsorbent to remove SMX and SPY. Further laboratory batch sorption experiments showed that DBG600 adsorbed SMX and SPY from aqueous solution with maximum adsorption capacity of 54.38 and 8.60 mg g, respectively. Solution pH showed strong effect on the sorption ability of DBG600 to the two antibiotics, and the sorption decreased with increasing of solution pH. Experimental and model results suggested that adsorption of SMX and SPY onto DBG600 might be controlled by the π-π interaction.

Effect of hydrothermal pre-treatment (HTP) on poultry slaughterhouse waste (PSW) sludge for the enhancement of the solubilization, physical properties, and biogas production through anaerobic digestion.This study is an assessment of the hydrothermal pre-treatment (HTP) of poultry slaughterhouse waste (PSW) sludge for the enhancement of the solubilization, physical properties, and biogas production through anaerobic digestion. This assessment was carried out to ascertain the optimal HTP temperature. The solubilization and physical properties efficacy was investigated by capillary suction time (CST), time to filter (TTF), and particle size. In addition, the anaerobic digestion was investigated through biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests and subsequent statistical analysis using the modified Gompertz model. HTP was found to have improved the solubilization of the PSW sludge with increasing HTP temperature. In addition, the results of the CST, TTF, and particle size decreased with increasing HTP temperature. These results of the assessment that was conducted in this study confirm that the HTP process indeed modifies the physical properties of PSWs to enhance the solubilization of organic solids. Nevertheless, the results of the BMP tests and the modified Gompertz model analysis show that the optimal HTP temperature of PSWs for anaerobic digestion is 190°C. These findings show that to achieve high conversion efficiency, an accurately designed pre-treatment step must be included in the overall anaerobic digestion process for wastewater treatment.

Anaerobic treatment of hydrothermally solubilised sugarcane bagasse and its kinetic modelling.The aim of this study was the evaluation of anaerobic treatment for the soluble organics generated from a steam-explosion pre-treatment of sugarcane bagasse. The batch analysis revealed that about 50% of the organics was possible to be degraded into methane whilst the rest was biologically inert and composed of mostly lignin. Based on the experiment a kinetic model composed of 14 kinds of soluble substances and 5 kinds of anaerobic microorganisms was developed. The model was used to simulate the process performance of a continuous anaerobic bioreactor with MLSS concentration at 2500-15,000mg/L. The simulation indicated that the bioreactor could receive the influent until 0.4kg-COD/kg-MLSS/d of loading without significant deterioration of methane conversion. By addition of powdered activated carbon, the rest of unbiodegradable soluble organics and dark brown colour in the effluent were removed to 840mg-C/L and 760 unit respectively at adsorption of 190mg-C/g-PAC and 1200unit/g-PAC.

Food Waste to Energy: An Overview of Sustainable Approaches for Food Waste Management and Nutrient Recycling.Food wastage and its accumulation are becoming a critical problem around the globe due to continuous increase of the world population. The exponential growth in food waste is imposing serious threats to our society like environmental pollution, health risk, and scarcity of dumping land. There is an urgent need to take appropriate measures to reduce food waste burden by adopting standard management practices. Currently, various kinds of approaches are investigated in waste food processing and management for societal benefits and applications. Anaerobic digestion approach has appeared as one of the most ecofriendly and promising solutions for food wastes management, energy, and nutrient production, which can contribute to world's ever-increasing energy requirements. Here, we have briefly described and explored the different aspects of anaerobic biodegrading approaches for food waste, effects of cosubstrates, effect of environmental factors, contribution of microbial population, and available computational resources for food waste management researches.

Effect of the micron-sized silica particles (MSSP) on biogas conversion of sewage sludge.Micron-sized silica particles (MSSP), ranging from 3 μm to 50 μm, have been widely found in the sewage sludge. The inhibition of MSSP to biogas conversion of both excess sludge (ES) and model sludge (MS) are explored in this study. It is observed that with the effect of MSSP, the net cumulative methane production (NCMP) of ES and MS were decreased by 23.5% and 22.3%, respectively, and the apparent activation energy (AAE) of organic solubilisation of ES and MS were increased by 38.7% and 215%, respectively, which implies a crucial role for MSSP in anaerobic sludge digestion. Analysis of physicochemical properties of sludges before and after interaction with MSSP reveals that MSSP can bond with organic matter from sludge on the surface sites to form a larger bioinorganic-floc. Further analysis indicates that MSSP can increase the AAE of sludge organic solubilisation by reducing the surface site density, thus resulting in poor NCMP. Through characterizing the bioinorganic-floc, it is found that the protein in sludge is the main component that bonds with MSSP. Further research show that the interactions between protein and MSSP are mainly enthalpy-driven with exothermic (the enthalpy was about -10.93 ± 0.10 kJ/mol, at 25 °C), indicating that protein is more stable after non-covalent bonding. These findings can provide a new understanding of the characteristics of sludge and important references for the improvement of anaerobic sludge digestion.

Effects of thermal treatment on high solid anaerobic digestion of swine manure: Enhancement assessment and kinetic analysis.Anaerobic digestion (AD), which is a process for generating biogas, can be applied to the treatment of organic wastes. Owing to its smaller footprint, lower energy consumption, and less digestate, high solid anaerobic digestion (HSAD) has attracted increasing attention. However, its biogas production is poor. In order to improve biogas production and decrease energy consumption, an improved thermal treatment process was proposed. Raw swine manure (>20% solid content) without any dilution was thermally treated at 70±1°C for different retention times, and then its effect on HSAD was investigated via batch AD experiments at 8.9% solid content. Results showed that the main organic components of swine manure hydrolyzed significantly during the thermal treatment, and HSAD's methane production rate was improved by up to 39.5%. Analysis using two kinetic models confirmed that the treatment could increase biodegradable organics (especially the readily biodegradable organics) in swine manure rather than upgrading its hydrolysis rate. It is worth noting that the superimposed first-order kinetics model was firstly applied in AD, and was a good tool to reveal the AD kinetics mechanism of substrates with complex components.

Coupling hydrothermal liquefaction and anaerobic digestion for energy valorization from model biomass feedstocks.Hydrothermal liquefaction converts food waste into oil and a carbon-rich hydrothermal aqueous phase. The hydrothermal aqueous phase may be converted to biomethane via anaerobic digestion. Here, the feasibility of coupling hydrothermal liquefaction and anaerobic digestion for the conversion of food waste into energy products was examined. A mixture of polysaccharides, proteins, and lipids, representing food waste, underwent hydrothermal processing at temperatures ranging from 200 to 350°C. The anaerobic biodegradability of the hydrothermal aqueous phase was examined through conducting biochemical methane potential assays. The results demonstrate that the anaerobic biodegradability of the hydrothermal aqueous phase was lower when the temperature of hydrothermal processing increased. The chemical composition of the hydrothermal aqueous phase affected the anaerobic biodegradability. However, no inhibition of biodegradation was observed for most samples. Combining hydrothermal and anaerobic digestion may, therefore, yield a higher energetic return by converting the feedstock into oil and biomethane.

Modified ADM1 for modeling free ammonia inhibition in anaerobic acidogenic fermentation with high-solid sludge.Anaerobic acidogenic fermentation with high-solid sludge is a promising method for volatile fatty acid (VFA) production to realize resource recovery. In this study, to model inhibition by free ammonia in high-solid sludge fermentation, the anaerobic digestion model No. 1 (ADM1) was modified to simulate the VFA generation in batch, semi-continuous and full scale sludge. The ADM1 was operated on the platform AQUASIM 2.0. Three kinds of inhibition forms, e.g., simple inhibition, Monod and non-inhibition forms, were integrated into the ADM1 and tested with the real experimental data for batch and semi-continuous fermentation, respectively. The improved particle swarm optimization technique was used for kinetic parameter estimation using the software MATLAB 7.0. In the modified ADM1, the K of acetate is 0.025, the k is 12.51, and the K is 0.02, respectively. The results showed that the simple inhibition model could simulate the VFA generation accurately while the Monod model was the better inhibition kinetics form in semi-continuous fermentation at pH10.0. Finally, the modified ADM1 could successfully describe the VFA generation and ammonia accumulation in a 30m full-scale sludge fermentation reactor, indicating that the developed model can be applicable in high-solid sludge anaerobic fermentation.

Combined effect of crude fat content and initial substrate concentration on batch anaerobic digestion characteristics of food waste.The mesophilic anaerobic digestion (AD) characteristics of food waste (FW) with different crude fat (CF) contents and four initial substrate concentrations (4, 6, 8, and 10gVS/L) were investigated. The maximum methane yields of FW with CF contents of 15%, 20%, 25%, 30%, and 35% were 565.0, 580.2, 606.0, 630.2 and 573.0mLCH/gVS, respectively. An acidification trend with a drop in pH (<6.80) and increase in the volatile fatty acids/total inorganic carbon (VFAs/TIC) ratio (>0.4) were found for CF contents of 30% (10gVS/L) and 35% (8 and 10gVS/L). A 35% CF content in FW led to decrease in the first-order degradation constant of approximately by 40%. The modified Gompertz model showed that the lag phase (λ) was prolonged from 0.4 to 7.1days when the CF content in FW and initial substrate concentration were increased to 35% and 10gVS/L.

Identifiability of large-scale non-linear dynamic network models applied to the ADM1-case study.In this work, both the structural and practical identifiability of the Anaerobic Digestion Model no. 1 (ADM1) is investigated, which serves as a relevant case study of large non-linear dynamic network models. The structural identifiability is investigated using the probabilistic algorithm, adapted to deal with the specifics of the case study (i.e., a large-scale non-linear dynamic system of differential and algebraic equations). The practical identifiability is analyzed using a Monte Carlo parameter estimation procedure for a 'non-informative' and 'informative' experiment, which are heuristically designed. The model structure of ADM1 has been modified by replacing parameters by parameter combinations, to provide a generally locally structurally identifiable version of ADM1. This means that in an idealized theoretical situation, the parameters can be estimated accurately. Furthermore, the generally positive structural identifiability results can be explained from the large number of interconnections between the states in the network structure. This interconnectivity, however, is also observed in the parameter estimates, making uncorrelated parameter estimations in practice difficult.

Modelling shortcut nitrogen removal from wastewater using an algal-bacterial consortium.A shortcut nitrogen removal process was investigated for treatment of high ammonium strength wastewater using an algal-bacterial consortium in photo-sequencing batch reactors (PSBRs). In this process, algae provide oxygen for nitritation during the light period, while denitritation takes place during the dark (anoxic) period, reducing overall energy and chemical requirements. Two PSBRs were operated at different solids retention times (SRTs) and fed with a high ammonium concentration wastewater (264 mg NH-N L), with a '12 hour on, 12 hour off' light cycle, and an average surface light intensity of 84 μmol m s. High total inorganic nitrogen removal efficiencies (∼95%) and good biomass settleability (sludge volume index 53-58 mL g) were observed in both PSBRs. Higher biomass density was observed at higher SRT, resulting in greater light attenuation and less oxygen production. A mathematical model was developed to describe the algal-bacterial interactions, which was based on Activated Sludge Model No. 3, modified to include algal processes. Model predictions fit the experimental data well. This research also proposes an innovative holistic approach to water and energy recovery. Wastewater can be effectively treated in an anaerobic digester, generating energy from biogas, and later post-treated using an algal-bacterial PSBR, which produces biomass for additional biogas production by co-digestion.

4
Immobilized and MgSO induced cost effective bacterial disintegration of waste activated sludge for effective anaerobic digestion.In this study, an attempt was made to disintegrate waste activated sludge (WAS) in a cost-effective way. During the first phase of this study, effective break down of extracellular polymeric substance (EPS) was performed by deflocculating WAS with 0.1 g/g SS of MgSO. Deflocculation rate was 92% with discharge rate of extractable EPS at 185 mg/L. In the second phase, effective bacterial cell disintegration was obtained at 36 h post treatment. Maximum solubilization of deflocculated sludge was approximately 21%, which was higher than that of flocculated sludge (14.2%) or the control (4.5%). Biodegradability studies were assessed through kinetic analysis by non-linear regression modeling. Results revealed that the deflocculated sludge had higher methane generation (at about 235.8 mL/gVs) compared to flocculated sludge (at 146.1 mL/gVs) or the control (at 34.8 mL/gVs). Cost assessment of the present work revealed that the net yield for each ton of the deflocculated sludge was about 32.99 USD.

B
The alternative sigma factor σ plays a crucial role in adaptive strategies of Clostridium difficile during gut infection.Clostridium difficile is a major cause of diarrhoea associated with antibiotherapy. Exposed to stresses in the gut, C. difficile can survive by inducing protection, detoxification and repair systems. In several firmicutes, most of these systems are controlled by the general stress response involving σ . In this work, we studied the role of σ in the physiopathology of C. difficile. We showed that the survival of the sigB mutant during the stationary phase was reduced. Using a transcriptome analysis, we showed that σ controls the expression of ∼25% of genes including genes involved in sporulation, metabolism, cell surface biogenesis and the management of stresses. By contrast, σ does not control toxin gene expression. In agreement with the up-regulation of sporulation genes, the sporulation efficiency is higher in the sigB mutant than in the wild-type strain. sigB inactivation also led to increased sensitivity to acidification, cationic antimicrobial peptides, nitric oxide and ROS. In addition, we showed for the first time that σ also plays a crucial role in oxygen tolerance in this strict anaerobe. Finally, we demonstrated that the fitness of colonisation by the sigB mutant is greatly affected in a dixenic mouse model of colonisation when compared to the wild-type strain.

A Redox-Responsive Transcription Factor Is Critical for Pathogenesis and Aerobic Growth of Listeria monocytogenes.Bacterial pathogens have evolved sophisticated mechanisms to sense and adapt to redox stress in nature and within the host. However, deciphering the redox environment encountered by intracellular pathogens in the mammalian cytosol is challenging, and that environment remains poorly understood. In this study, we assessed the contributions of the two redox-responsive, Spx-family transcriptional regulators to the virulence of , a Gram-positive facultative intracellular pathogen. Spx-family proteins are highly conserved in , and the  genome contains two paralogues,  and  Here, we demonstrate that , but not , is required for the oxidative stress response and pathogenesis. SpxA1 function appeared to be conserved with the  homologue, and resistance to oxidative stress required the canonical CXXC redox-sensing motif. Remarkably,  was essential for aerobic growth, demonstrating that  SpxA1 likely regulates a distinct set of genes. Although the Δ mutant did not grow in the presence of oxygen in the laboratory, it was able to replicate in macrophages and colonize the spleens, but not the livers, of infected mice. These data suggest that the redox state of bacteria during infection differs significantly from that of bacteria growing  Further, the host cell cytosol may resemble an anaerobic environment, with tissue-specific variations in redox stress and oxygen concentration.

2
Biological H potential harvested from complex gelatinaceous wastewater via attached versus suspended growth culture anaerobes.The effect of cultural growth treating gelatinaceous wastewater on hydrogen fermentative was assessed using up-flow multi-stage anaerobic sponge reactor (UMASR) and anaerobic sequencing batch reactor (AnSBR). Both reactors were operated at five hydraulic retention times (HRTs). UMASR achieved the maximum COD removal efficiency of 60.2±4.4% at HRT of 48h. Moreover, UMASR exhibited superiority in the course of carbohydrates and proteins removal efficiencies' of 100 and 52.5±2.4% due to high amylase and protease activities' of 4.1±0.3 and 0.032±0.002U, respectively. Contrariwise, AnSBR assigned for the peak hydrogen production rate of 1.17±0.14L/L/day at HRT of 24-h. Lipase activity was quite high (0.307±0.023U) in AnSBR resulting in removal efficiency of 35.2±2.1% for lipids. Stover-Kincannon model emphasized that UMASR required lesser volume than AnSBR to sustain the same substrate degradation efficacy. Nevertheless, the net gain energy harvested from AnSBR surpassed UMASR by 4.0-folds at HRT of 24-h.

Batch and semi-continuous anaerobic co-digestion of goose manure with alkali solubilized wheat straw: A case of carbon to nitrogen ratio and organic loading rate regression optimization.The present study focused on carbon to nitrogen ratio (C/N) and organic loading rate (OLR) optimization of goose manure (GM) and wheat straw (WS). Dealing the anaerobic digestion of poultry manure on industrial scale; the question of optimum C/N (mixing ratio) and OLR (daily feeding concentration) have significant importance still lack in literature. Therefore, Batch and CSTR co-digestion experiments of the GM and WS were carried out at mesophilic condition. The alkali (NaOH) solubilization pretreatment for the WS had greatly enhanced its anaerobic digestibility. The highest methane production was evaluated between the C/N of 20-30 during Batch experimentation while for CSTRs; the second applied OLR of (3g.VS/L.d) was proved as the optimum with maximum methane production capability of 254.65ml/g.VS for reactor B at C/N of 25. The C/N and OLR regression optimization models were developed for their commercial scale usefulness.

Optimization of a thermal hydrolysis process for sludge pre-treatment.At industrial scale, thermal hydrolysis is the most used process to enhance biodegradability of the sludge produced in wastewater treatment plants. Through statistically guided Box-Behnken experimental design, the present study analyses the effect of TH as pre-treatment applied to activated sludge. The selected process variables were temperature (130-180 °C), time (5-50 min) and decompression mode (slow or steam-explosion effect), and the parameters evaluated were sludge solubilisation and methane production by anaerobic digestion. A quadratic polynomial model was generated to compare the process performance for the 15 different combinations of operation conditions by modifying the process variables evaluated. The statistical analysis performed exhibited that methane production and solubility were significantly affected by pre-treatment time and temperature. During high intensity pre-treatment (high temperature and long times), the solubility increased sharply while the methane production exhibited the opposite behaviour, indicating the formation of some soluble but non-biodegradable materials. Therefore, solubilisation is not a reliable parameter to quantify the efficiency of a thermal hydrolysis pre-treatment, since it is not directly related to methane production. Based on the operational parameters optimization, the estimated optimal thermal hydrolysis conditions to enhance of sewage sludge digestion were: 140-170 °C heating temperature, 5-35min residence time, and one sudden decompression.

A stability assessment tool for anaerobic codigestion.Anaerobic codigestion allows for greater resource recovery from organic substrates and provides opportunities for more stable operation than mono-digestion. Despite these benefits, the adoption of codigestion is limited because it can introduce operational complexity and suffers from some of the same challenges as mono-digestion, such as ammonia inhibition and nutrient imbalances. There is a need for rapid and cost-effective assessments that can provide insight to design engineers as they explore the valorization of local organic waste streams and seek to maintain or improve digester stability. To address this need, we developed and tested a tool that can yield useful stability indicators, performance predictions, and substrate selection protocols for codigestion. This tool uses quantitative, empirical data on stability indicators within an assessment framework to evaluate a digester's process stability. The tool's accuracy was tested using real and simulated digester data, and the importance of the nitrogen and lipid composition of a substrate was identified. The resulting stability assessment tool improves our fundamental understanding of codigestion, provides a mechanism to reduce the number of experiments, and guides selection of appropriate substrate combinations that can maximize energy recovery during codigestion without compromising process stability.

Preparation and preservation of viable Akkermansia muciniphila cells for therapeutic interventions.The anaerobic gut bacterium Akkermansia muciniphila is a well-characterised member of the mucosal microbiota and has shown to be a gut symbiont in human. A. muciniphila has been negatively associated with obesity and its associated metabolic disorders in various human cohorts while treatment with A. muciniphila cells reversed highfat diet-induced obesity and its associated metabolic disorders in mouse models. Therefore, administration of A. muciniphila has been suggested as a possible new therapeutic treatment for these omnipresent diseases. Here we describe a potentially scalable workflow for the preparation and preservation of high numbers of viable cells of A. muciniphila obtained from 1 l laboratory scale growth under strict anaerobic conditions for therapeutic interventions. This resulted in viable A. muciniphila cells with high yields and very high stability, with up to 97.9±4.5% survival for a time period of 1 year at -80 °C in glycerol-amended medium. Moreover, various quality assessment and control procedures were developed to ensure the use of viable cells of A. muciniphila. Several microscopic, culturing, and molecular approaches were applied to monitor the presence, abundance and recovery of A. muciniphila before, during, and after its administration to high-fat treated mice. We show that viable A. muciniphila cells can be recovered from caecal and colon content (up to 1×10 cells/g), testifying for the efficiency of the described workflow.

Development of Clostridium difficile R20291ΔPaLoc model strains and in vitro methodologies reveals CdtR is required for the production of CDT to cytotoxic levels.Assessing the regulation of Clostridium difficile transferase (CDT), is complicated by the presence of a Pathogenicity locus (PaLoc) which encodes Toxins A and B. Here we developed R20291ΔPaLoc model strains and cell-based assays to quantify CDT-mediated virulence. Their application demonstrated that the transcriptional regulator, CdtR, was required for CDT-mediated cytotoxicity.

A mass balance model to estimate the rate of composting, methane oxidation and anaerobic digestion in soil covers and shallow waste layers.Although CH oxidation in landfill soil covers is widely studied, the extent of composting and CH oxidation in underlying waste layers has been speculated but not measured. The objective of this study was to develop and validate a mass balance model to estimate the simultaneous rates of anaerobic digestion (r), CH oxidation (r) and composting (r) in environments where O penetration is variable and zones of aerobic and anaerobic activity are intermingled. The modelled domain could include, as an example, a soil cover and the underlying shallow waste to a nominated depth. The proposed model was demonstrated on a blend of biogas from three separate known sources of gas representing the three reaction processes: (i) a bottle of laboratory grade 50:50% CH:CO gas representing anaerobic digestion biogas; (ii) an aerated 250mL bottle containing food waste that represented composting activity; and (iii) an aerated 250mL bottle containing non-degradable graphite granules inoculated with methanotrophs and incubated with CH and O to represent methanotrophic activity. CO, CH, O and the stable isotope C-CO were chosen as the components for the mass balance model. The three reaction rates, r (=r, r, r) were calculated as fitting parameters to the overdetermined set of 4mass balance equations with the net flux of these components from the bottles q (= [Formula: see text] , [Formula: see text] , [Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text] ) as inputs to the model. The coefficient of determination (r) for observed versus modelled values of r were 1.00, 0.97, 0.98 when the stoichiometry of each reaction was based on gas yields measured in the individual bottles and q was calculated by summing yields from the three bottles. r deteriorated to 0.95, 0.96, 0.87 when using an average stoichiometry from 11 incubations of each of the composting and methane oxidation processes. The significant deterioration in the estimation of r showed that this output is highly sensitive to the evaluated stoichiometry coefficients for the reactions. r deteriorated further to 0.86, 0.77, 0.74 when using the average stoichiometry and experimental measurement of the composition and volume of the blended biogas to determine q. This was primarily attributed to average errors of 8%, 7%, 11% and 14% in the measurement of [Formula: see text] , [Formula: see text] , [Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text] relative to the measurement of the same quantities from the individual bottles.

Net positive energy wastewater treatment plant via thermal pre-treatment of sludge: A theoretical case study.In a wastewater treatment process, energy is mainly used in sludge handling and heating, while energy is recovered by biogas production in anaerobic digestion process. Thermal pre-treatment of sludge can change the energy balance in a wastewater treatment process since it reduces the viscosity and yield stress of sludge and increases the biogas production. In this study, a calculation based on a hypothetical wastewater treatment plant is provided to show the possibility of creating a net positive energy wastewater treatment plant as a result of implementing thermal pre-treatment process before the anaerobic digester. The calculations showed a great energy saving in pumping and mixing of the sludge by thermal pre-treatment of sludge before anaerobic digestion process.

The role of gut microbiota in health and disease: In vitro modeling of host-microbe interactions at the aerobe-anaerobe interphase of the human gut.The microbiota of the gut has many crucial functions in human health. Dysbiosis of the microbiota has been correlated to a large and still increasing number of diseases. Recent studies have mostly focused on analyzing the associations between disease and an aberrant microbiota composition. Functional studies using (in vitro) gut models are required to investigate the precise interactions that occur between specific bacteria (or bacterial mixtures) and gut epithelial cells. As most gut bacteria are obligate or facultative anaerobes, studying their effect on oxygen-requiring human gut epithelial cells is technically challenging. Still, several (anaerobic) bacterial-epithelial co-culture systems have recently been developed that mimic host-microbe interactions occurring in the human gut, including 1) the Transwell "apical anaerobic model of the intestinal epithelial barrier", 2) the Host-Microbiota Interaction (HMI) module, 3) the "Human oxygen-Bacteria anaerobic" (HoxBan) system, 4) the human gut-on-a-chip and 5) the HuMiX model. This review discusses the role of gut microbiota in health and disease and gives an overview of the characteristics and applications of these novel host-microbe co-culture systems.

Energy performance of an integrated bio-and-thermal hybrid system for lignocellulosic biomass waste treatment.Lignocellulosic biomass waste, a heterogeneous complex of biodegradables and non-biodegradables, accounts for large proportion of municipal solid waste. Due to limitation of single-stage treatment, a two-stage hybrid AD-gasification system was proposed in this work, in which AD acted as pre-treatment to convert biodegradables into biogas followed by gasification converting solid residue into syngas. Energy performance of single and two-stage systems treating 3 typical lignocellulosic wastes was studied using both experimental and numerical methods. In comparison with conventional single-stage gasification treatment, this hybrid system could significantly improve the quality of produced gas for all selected biomass wastes and show its potential in enhancing total gas energy production by a maximum value of 27% for brewer's spent grain treatment at an organic loading rate (OLR) of 3gVS/L/day. The maximum overall efficiency of the hybrid system for horticultural waste treatment was 75.2% at OLR of 11.3gVS/L/day, 5.5% higher than conventional single-stage system.

The role of zero valent iron on the fate of tetracycline resistance genes and class 1 integrons during thermophilic anaerobic co-digestion of waste sludge and kitchen waste.Activated sludge has been identified as a potential significant source of antibiotic resistance genes (ARGs) to the environment. Anaerobic digestion is extensively used for sludge stabilization and resource recovery, and represents a crucial process for controlling the dissemination of ARGs prior to land application of digested sludge. The objective of this study is to investigate the effect of zero valent iron (Fe) on the attenuation of seven representative tetracycline resistance genes (tet, tet(A), tet(C), tet(G), tet(M), tet(O), tet(W), and tet(X)), and the integrase gene intI1 during thermophilic anaerobic co-digestion of waste sludge and kitchen waste. Significant decrease (P < 0.05) in the quantities of tet (except tet(W)) and intI1 genes was observed at Fe dosage of 5 g/L, whereas no significant differences (P > 0.05) were found for all gene targets between digesters with Fe dosages of 5 and 60 g/L. A first-order kinetic model favorably described the trends in concentrations of tet and intI1 gene targets during thermophilic anaerobic digestion with or without Fe. Notably, tet genes encoding different resistance mechanisms behaved distinctly in anaerobic digesters, although addition of Fe could enhance their reduction. The overall results of this research suggest that thermophilic anaerobic digestion with Fe can be a potential alternative technology for the attenuation of tet and intI1 genes in waste sludge.

Kinetic parameter estimation model for anaerobic co-digestion of waste activated sludge and microalgae.Anaerobic co-digestion has a potential to improve biogas production, but limited kinetic information is available for co-digestion. This study introduced regression-based models to estimate the kinetic parameters for the co-digestion of microalgae and Waste Activated Sludge (WAS). The models were developed using the ratios of co-substrates and the kinetic parameters for the single substrate as indicators. The models were applied to the modified first-order kinetics and Monod model to determine the rate of hydrolysis and methanogenesis for the co-digestion. The results showed that the model using a hyperbola function was better for the estimation of the first-order kinetic coefficients, while the model using inverse tangent function closely estimated the Monod kinetic parameters. The models can be used for estimating kinetic parameters for not only microalgae-WAS co-digestion but also other substrates' co-digestion such as microalgae-swine manure and WAS-aquatic plants.

Estimation of biogas and methane yields in an UASB treating potato starch processing wastewater with backpropagation artificial neural network.Three-layered feedforward backpropagation (BP) artificial neural networks (ANN) and multiple nonlinear regression (MnLR) models were developed to estimate biogas and methane yield in an upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor treating potato starch processing wastewater (PSPW). Anaerobic process parameters were optimized to identify their importance on methanation. pH, total chemical oxygen demand, ammonium, alkalinity, total Kjeldahl nitrogen, total phosphorus, volatile fatty acids and hydraulic retention time selected based on principal component analysis were used as input variables, whiles biogas and methane yield were employed as target variables. Quasi-Newton method and conjugate gradient backpropagation algorithms were best among eleven training algorithms. Coefficient of determination (R) of the BP-ANN reached 98.72% and 97.93% whiles MnLR model attained 93.9% and 91.08% for biogas and methane yield, respectively. Compared with the MnLR model, BP-ANN model demonstrated significant performance, suggesting possible control of the anaerobic digestion process with the BP-ANN model.

Thermochemical pretreatment and anaerobic digestion of dairy cow manure: Experimental and economic evaluation.The aim of this study was to assess technically and economically the application thermochemical pretreatment in the anaerobic digestion of dairy cow manure. After selecting the optimum substrate to inoculum (S/I) ratio in a preliminary BMP test, the following tests compared 20 different pretreatment conditions varying temperature (100 and 37°C), exposure time (5 and 30min and 12 and 24h) and chemical doses (0.5, 2, 6 and 10% of HCl or NaOH). The highest value of maximum production rate was achieved at an S/I ratio of 0.25gVSgVS. The major improvements of the methane potential were 23.6% with 10% of NaOH at 100°C for 5min and 20.6% with 2% of HCl at 37°C. The technical-economic analysis showed that the implementation of neither thermal alkali nor thermal-acid pretreatment would be feasible and the conventional one-step anaerobic digestion outperforms both alternatives.

Assessment of models for anaerobic biodegradation of a model bioplastic: Poly(hydroxybutyrate-co-hydroxyvalerate).Kinetic models of anaerobic digestion (AD) are widely applied to soluble and particulate substrates, but have not been systematically evaluated for bioplastics. Here, five models are evaluated to determine their suitability for modeling of anaerobic biodegradation of the bioplastic poly(hydroxybutyrate-co-hydroxyvalerate) (PHBV): (1) first-order kinetics with and without a lag phase, (2) two-step first-order, (3) Monod (4) Contois, and (5) Gompertz. Three models that couple biomass growth with substrate hydrolysis (Monod, Contois, and Gompertz) gave the best overall fits for the data (R>0.98), with reasonable estimates of ultimate CH production. The particle size limits of these models were then evaluated. Below a particle size of 0.8mm, rates of hydrolysis and acetogenesis exceeded rates of methanogenesis with accumulation of intermediates leading to a temporary inhibition of CH production. Based on model fit and simplicity, the Gompertz model is recommended for applications in which particle size is greater than 0.8mm.

In Vitro Effect of Porphyromonas gingivalis Methionine Gamma Lyase on Biofilm Composition and Oral Inflammatory Response.Methanethiol (methyl mercaptan) is an important contributor to oral malodour and periodontal tissue destruction. Porphyromonas gingivalis, Prevotella intermedia and Fusobacterium nucleatum are key oral microbial species that produce methanethiol via methionine gamma lyase (mgl) activity. The aim of this study was to compare an mgl knockout strain of P. gingivalis with its wild type using a 10-species biofilm co-culture model with oral keratinocytes and its effect on biofilm composition and inflammatory cytokine production. A P. gingivalis mgl knockout strain was constructed using insertion mutagenesis from wild type W50 with gas chromatographic head space analysis confirming lack of methanethiol production. 10-species biofilms consisting of Streptococcus mitis, Streptococcus oralis, Streptococcus intermedius, Fusobacterium nucleatum ssp polymorphum, Fusobacterium nucleatum ssp vincentii, Veillonella dispar, Actinomyces naeslundii, Prevotella intermedia and Aggregatibacter actinomycetemcomitans with either the wild type or mutant P. gingivalis were grown on Thermanox cover slips and used to stimulate oral keratinocytes (OKF6-TERT2), under anaerobic conditions for 4 and 24 hours. Biofilms were analysed by quantitative PCR with SYBR Green for changes in microbial ecology. Keratinocyte culture supernatants were analysed using a multiplex bead immunoassay for cytokines. Significant population differences were observed between mutant and wild type biofilms; V. dispar proportions increased (p<0.001), whilst A. naeslundii (p<0.01) and Streptococcus spp. (p<0.05) decreased in mutant biofilms. Keratinocytes produced less IL-8, IL-6 and IL-1α when stimulated with the mutant biofilms compared to wild type. Lack of mgl in P. gingivalis has been shown to affect microbial ecology in vitro, giving rise to a markedly different biofilm composition, with a more pro-inflammatory cytokine response from the keratinocytes observed. A possible role for methanethiol in biofilm formation and cytokine response with subsequent effects on oral malodor and periodontitis is suggested.

Correlating methane production to microbiota in anaerobic digesters fed synthetic wastewater.A quantitative structure activity relationship (QSAR) between relative abundance values and digester methane production rate was developed. For this, 50 triplicate anaerobic digester sets (150 total digesters) were each seeded with different methanogenic biomass samples obtained from full-scale, engineered methanogenic systems. Although all digesters were operated identically for at least 5 solids retention times (SRTs), their quasi steady-state function varied significantly, with average daily methane production rates ranging from 0.09 ± 0.004 to 1 ± 0.05 L-CH/L-day (L = Liter of reactor volume) (average ± standard deviation). Digester microbial community structure was analyzed using more than 4.1 million partial 16S rRNA gene sequences of Archaea and Bacteria. At the genus level, 1300 operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were observed across all digesters, whereas each digester contained 158 ± 27 OTUs. Digester function did not correlate with typical biomass descriptors such as volatile suspended solids (VSS) concentration, microbial richness, diversity or evenness indices. However, methane production rate did correlate notably with relative abundances of one Archaeal and nine Bacterial OTUs. These relative abundances were used as descriptors to develop a multiple linear regression (MLR) QSAR equation to predict methane production rates solely based on microbial community data. The model explained over 66% of the variance in the experimental data set based on 149 anaerobic digesters with a standard error of 0.12 L-CH/L-day. This study provides a framework to relate engineered process function and microbial community composition which can be further expanded to include different feed stocks and digester operating conditions in order to develop a more robust QSAR model.

Comparison of existing models to simulate anaerobic digestion of lipid-rich waste.Models for anaerobic digestion of lipid-rich waste taking inhibition into account were reviewed and, if necessary, adjusted to the ADM1 model framework in order to compare them. Experimental data from anaerobic digestion of slaughterhouse waste at an organic loading rate (OLR) ranging from 0.3 to 1.9kgVSmd were used to compare and evaluate models. Experimental data obtained at low OLRs were accurately modeled whatever the model thereby validating the stoichiometric parameters used and influent fractionation. However, at higher OLRs, although inhibition parameters were optimized to reduce differences between experimental and simulated data, no model was able to accurately simulate accumulation of substrates and intermediates, mainly due to the wrong simulation of pH. A simulation using pH based on experimental data showed that acetogenesis and methanogenesis were the most sensitive steps to LCFA inhibition and enabled identification of the inhibition parameters of both steps.

Hydrolysis of Dicaffeoylquinic Acids from Ilex kudingcha Happens in the Colon by Intestinal Microbiota.Monocaffeoylquinic acids (mono-CQAs) can be hydrolyzed or metabolized by pancreatin, intestinal brush border esterase, and microbiota in the colon. Data about the conversion of dicaffeoylquinic acids (diCQAs) in digestion are scarce. The diCQA-rich fraction including 3,4-, 3,5-, and 4,5-diCQAs was prepared from Ilex kudingcha, and the conversion in simulated gastricintestine was investigated. Artificial saliva, gastric and pancreatic fluids, Caco-2 monolayer cells, and anaerobic fermentation model were utilized to mimic digestions of the oral cavity, stomach, small intestine, and colon in vitro. The results revealed that diCQAs remained intact in simulated saliva, gastric, and pancreatic fluids and within Caco-2 cells. In anaerobic fermentation with human fecal slurry, diCQAs were hydrolyzed to mono-CQAs and caffeic acid, which were further metabolized to caffeic acid and dihydrocaffeic acid, respectively. The hydrolysis of diCQAs depended on the chemical structures, carbohydrates in the culture medium, and microbial compositions. Our research demonstrated that hydrolysis of diCQAs happened in the colon by intestinal microbiota.

A simplified stoichiometric kinetic model for estimating the concentration of reaction products in anaerobic digestion.Modelling the anaerobic digestion process is often complex and needs to consider many input parameters. This study simplified the modelling procedure by developing an idealized stoichiometric kinetic model that simulates the anaerobic digestion process with only a few parameters: composition coefficients (α and β), maximum substrate utilization rate (q), endogenous-decay coefficient (b), biodegradable fraction (f), and temperature coefficient (Ф). We validated the model with the operating results of a pilot two-phase anaerobic digester for food wastewater disposal and calculated using the MATLAB programing software. The comparison between the experimental and model simulation results demonstrated a good agreement. The developed model correctly simulated the fate of chemicals in the anaerobic digestion process.

Evaluation of gas and carbon transport in a methanogenic bioelectrochemical system (BES).Bioelectrochemical systems (BESs) may be used to upgrade anaerobic digester biogas by directly converting CO to CH . The objective of this study was to evaluate gas (N , CO , CH , and H ) and carbon transport within a methanogenic BES. Four BES configurations were evaluated: abiotic anode with abiotic cathode (AAn-ACa), bioanode with abiotic cathode (BAn-ACa), abiotic anode with biocathode (AAn-BCa), and bioanode with biocathode (BAn-BCa). Transport of N , a gas commonly used for flushing anoxic systems, out of the anode headspace ranged from 3.7 to 6.2 L/d-atm-m , normalized to the proton exchange membrane (PEM) surface area and net driving pressure (NDP). CO was transported from the cathode to the anode headspace at rates from 3.7 to 5.4 L/d-atm-m . The flux of H from cathode to anode headspace was 48% greater when the system had a biocathode (AAn-BCa) than when H was produced at an abiotic cathode (BAn-ACa), even though the abiotic cathode headspace had 75% more H than the AAn-BCa biocathode at the end of 1 day. A 7-day carbon balance of a batch-fed BAn-BCa BES showed transient microbial carbon storage and a net transport of carbon from anode to cathode. After a 7-day batch incubation, the CH production in the biocathode was 27% greater on a molar basis than the initial CO supplied to the biocathode headspace, indicating conversion of CO produced in the anode. This research expands the current understanding of methanogenic BES operation, which may be used in improving the assessment of BES performance and/or in the development of alternative BES designs and mathematical models. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2017;114: 961-969. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Effect of structural carbohydrates and lignin content on the anaerobic digestion of paper and paper board materials by anaerobic granular sludge.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of lignocellulosic materials is commonly limited by the hydrolysis step. Unlike unprocessed lignocellulosic materials, paper and paper board (PPB) are processed for their fabrication. Such modifications may affect their methane yields and methane production rates. Previous studies have investigated the correlation between lignin and biomethane yields of unprocessed lignocellulosic materials; nevertheless, there is limited knowledge regarding the relationship between the AD kinetic parameters and composition of PPB. This study evaluated correlations of methane yields and Monod and Gompertz kinetic parameters with structural carbohydrates, lignin, and ash concentration of five types of PPBs. All components were used as single and combined independent variables in linear regressions to predict methane yield, maximum specific methanogenic activity (SMA ), saturation constant (K ), and lag phase (λ). Additionally, microbial community profiles were obtained for each PPB assay. Results showed methane yields ranging from 69.2 ± 8.61 to 97.2 ± 2.29% of PPB substrates provided. The highest correlation coefficients were obtained for SMA as function of hemicellulose/(lignin + ash) (R  = 0.86) and for λ as a function of lignin + cellulose (R  = 0.85). All other parameters exhibited weaker correlations (R  ≤ 0.77). Relative abundance analyses revealed no major changes in the community profile for each of the substrates evaluated. The overall findings of this study are: (i) combinations of structural carbohydrates, lignin, and ash used as ratios of degradable to either non-degradable or slowly degradable fractions predict AD kinetic parameters of PPB materials better than single independent variables; and (ii) other components added during their fabrication may also influence both methane yield and kinetic parameters. Biotechnol. Bioeng. 2017;114: 951-960. © 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Inhibition on anammox bacteria upon exposure to digestates from biogas plants treating the organic fraction of municipal solid waste and the role of conductivity.The aim of this research was to evaluate the applicability of the anammox process for removing nitrogen from the supernatant originating from the anaerobic digestion of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW). The short term inhibitory potential of this concentrated wastewater was evaluated by means of batch tests in terms of maximum specific anammox activity reduction. A total of 20 real wastewater samples were tested originating from 4 different full scale anaerobic digestion plants treating OFMSW. Activity reduction between 73% and 89% was observed in the presence of undiluted real wastewaters. The specific activity remained stable for 6-7days after the initial reduction, thus suggesting its treatability even without dilution. The inhibitory effect of both the real and synthetic saline media tested could be modelled as a function of conductivity. IC50 of 6.1mS/cm was obtained for exposure to the tested liquid fraction of biowaste digestate.

4 2 4
Improvement in CH/CO ratio and CH yield as related to biomass mix composition during anaerobic co-digestion.Sixteen data sets (two of which were measured in this study) with a combined total of 145 measurements of ultimate methane yield (UMY) during mono- and co-digestion of ternary biomass mixtures were used to assess impact of co-digestion on the relative change in UMY (ΔUMY) as a function of biomass mix composition. The data involved 9 biomass materials (brewery spent grains, chicken manure, cow manure, fresh grass clippings, pig manure, primary sewage sludge, vegetable food waste, wheat straw, and rice straw). Results of the assessment shows that co-digestion in 85% of yields positive values of ΔUMY regardless of the biomass materials used, however, a smaller fraction (15%) resulted in negative ΔUMY during co-digestion. The data further indicate that for each set of ternary biomass material mixtures there exists an optimal biomass mix composition at which ΔUMY is at a maximum. Statistical analyses based on the data used here indicate that the maximum value of ΔUMY (ΔUMY) is always positive regardless of biomass materials being co-digested.

Unexpected competitiveness of Methanosaeta populations at elevated acetate concentrations in methanogenic treatment of animal wastewater.Acetoclastic methanogenesis is a key metabolic process in anaerobic digestion, a technology with broad applications in biogas production and waste treatment. Acetoclastic methanogenesis is known to be performed by two archaeal genera, Methanosaeta and Methanosarcina. The conventional model posits that Methanosaeta populations are more competitive at low acetate levels (<1 mM) than Methanosarcina and vice versa at higher acetate concentrations. While this model is supported by an extensive body of studies, reports of inconsistency have grown that Methanosaeta were observed to outnumber Methanosarcina at elevated acetate levels. In this study, monitoring of anaerobic digesters treating animal wastewater unexpectedly identified Methanosaeta as the dominant acetoclastic methanogen population at both low and high acetate levels during organic overloading. The surprising competitiveness of Methanosaeta at elevated acetate was further supported by the enrichment of Methanosaeta with high concentrations of acetate (20 mM). The dominance of Methanosaeta in the methanogen community could be reproduced in anaerobic digesters with the direct addition of acetate to above 20 mM, again supporting the competitiveness of Methanosaeta over Methanosarcina at elevated acetate levels. This study for the first time systematically demonstrated that the dominance of Methanosaeta populations in anaerobic digestion could be linked to the competitiveness of Methanosaeta at elevated acetate concentrations. Given the importance of acetoclastic methanogenesis in biological methane production, findings from this study could have major implications for developing strategies for more effective control of methanogenic treatment processes.

The effects of co-substrate and thermal pretreatment on anaerobic digestion performance.The influence of anaerobic co-digestion of leachate and sludge with organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) under mesophilic condition in three batch digesters of 5 L capacity has been studied. OFMSW was mixed with leachate and sludge at three different ratios. Experimental results illustrated that the digester with a ratio of 2000/2500 (leachate (mL) or sludge/OFMSW (mL)) had significantly higher performance. Furthermore, this study compared the performance of anaerobic digestion of different substrates with three different mixing ratios with and without thermal pretreatment at low temperature (65°C) in terms of biogas production, chemical oxygen demand (COD) elimination as well as hydraulic retention time. In addition, to predict the biogas yield and evaluate the kinetic parameters, the modified Gompertz model was applied. Based on the results, the maximum biogas yield from adding different leachate and sludge ratios to OFMSW was recorded to be 0.45 and 0.38 mkg COD which was higher about 7% in comparison with co-digestion original OFMSW without thermal pretreatment. In addition, thermal pretreatment accelerated the hydrolysis step. Moreover, the total COD elimination was relatively stable in the range of 52-60% at all types of substrate mixtures. Also, the modified Gompertz model demonstrated a good fit to the experimental results.
AD: anaerobic digester; BOD: biochemical oxygen demand; COD: chemical oxygen demand; FAAS: flame atomic absorption spectroscopy; HS: high solids; HRT: hydraulic retention time; LS: low solids; MS: medium solids; OFMSW: organic fraction of municipal solid waste; TCD: thermal conductivity detector; TS: total solid; TSS: total suspended solids.

Fast characterization of solid organic waste content with near infrared spectroscopy in anaerobic digestion.The development of anaerobic digestion involves both co-digestion of solid wastes and optimization of the feeding recipe. Within this context, substrate characterisation is an essential issue. Although it is widely used, the biochemical methane potential is not sufficient to optimize the operation of anaerobic digestion plants. Indeed the biochemical composition in carbohydrates, lipids, proteins and the chemical oxygen demand of the inputs are key parameters for the optimisation of process performances. Here we used near infrared spectroscopy as a robust and less-time consuming tool to predict the solid waste content in carbohydrates, lipids and nitrogen, and the chemical oxygen demand. We built a Partial Least Square regression model with 295 samples and validated it with an independent set of 46 samples across a wide range of solid wastes found in anaerobic digestion units. The standard errors of cross-validation were 90mgO⋅gTS carbohydrates, 2.5∗10g⋅gTS lipids, 7.2∗10g⋅gTS nitrogen and 99mgO⋅gTS chemical oxygen demand. The standard errors of prediction were 53mgO⋅gTS carbohydrates, 3.2∗10g⋅gTS lipids, 8.6∗10g⋅gTS nitrogen and 83mgO⋅gTS chemical oxygen demand. These results show that near infrared spectroscopy is a new fast and cost-efficient way to characterize solid wastes content and improve their anaerobic digestion monitoring.

Characteristics of dissolved organic matter formed in aerobic and anaerobic digestion of excess activated sludge.The characteristics of dissolved organic matter (DOM) formed in aerobic and anaerobic digestion of excess activated sludge (EAS) was investigated for three total solid (TS) concentrations (1.2, 2.3 and 5.2%) and three temperatures (5, 20 and 35 °C). The results on the overall concentration of DOM evaluated by TOC showed significantly higher values in anaerobic than aerobic digestion (2.8-6.9 times for TS 1.2-5.2% at 20 °C). Data analysis with a first-order sequential reaction model revealed that higher occurrence of DOM in anaerobic digestion was a result of comparatively faster hydrolysis (1.3-5.5 times for TS 1.2-5.2% at 20 °C; 1.4-49.3 times for temperatures 5-35 °C with TS 1.2%) and slower degradation (0.3-1.0 times for TS 1.2-5.2% at 20 °C; 0.5-8.3 times for temperatures 5-35 °C with TS 1.2%). In aerobic digestion, more humic substances were formed; while, in anaerobic digestion, proteins and aromatic amino acids were the major constituents. For both digestions, except for a few exceptions, proteins and humic substances increased as the TS concentration increased; and increasing the temperature led to a decrease in the content of proteins formed in both aerobic and anaerobic digestion, and an increase in the content of humic substances in the aerobic digestion. The UV-absorbing DOM constituents were highly heterogeneous, and were comparatively larger in anaerobic digestion; and did not change significantly with the TS concentrations and temperatures.

Happy together: microbial communities that hook up to swap electrons.The discovery of direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) and cable bacteria has demonstrated that microbial cells can exchange electrons over long distances (μm-cm) through electrical connections. For example, in the presence of cable bacteria electrons are rapidly transported over centimeter distances, coupling the oxidation of reduced sulfur compounds in anoxic sediments to oxygen reduction in overlying surficial sediments. Bacteria and archaea wired for DIET are found in anaerobic methane-producing and methane-consuming communities. Electrical connections between gut microbes and host cells have also been proposed. Iterative environmental and defined culture studies on methanogenic communities revealed the importance of electrically conductive pili and c-type cytochromes in natural electrical grids, and demonstrated that conductive carbon materials and magnetite can substitute for these biological connectors to facilitate DIET. This understanding has led to strategies to enhance and stabilize anaerobic digestion. Key unknowns warranting further investigation include elucidation of the archaeal electrical connections facilitating DIET-based methane production and consumption; and the mechanisms for long-range electron transfer through cable bacteria. A better understanding of mechanisms for cell-to-cell electron transfer could facilitate the hunt for additional electrically connected microbial communities with omics approaches and could advance spin-off applications such as the development of sustainable bioelectronics materials and bioelectrochemical technologies.

Evaluation of the impact of organic material on the anaerobic methane and ammonium removal in a membrane aerated biofilm reactor (MABR) based on the multispecies biofilm modeling.The simultaneous nitrogen and methane removal by the combined nitritation, anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox), and nitrite dependent anaerobic methane oxidation (n-damo) processes in the membrane aerated biofilm reactor (MABR) offers clear advantages in term of energy saving and greenhouse gas emission mitigation. The rejected water from sludge digestion usually contained high ammonium, COD, and dissolved methane. The impact of influent COD on the anaerobic methane and ammonium removal in an MABR was evaluated in the model based study. The results indicated that the influent COD did not reduce the methane and ammonium removal efficiency at C/N ratio (influent COD/NH-N) less than 0.1. At high C/N ratio, the oxygen transfer coefficient needed to be increased to achieve high methane and nitrogen removal. Substrate flux analysis indicated that heterotrophic denitrification in the outside layer of biofilm reduced the impact of influent COD. Heterotrophic growth needed to be limited at the outside layer by using NO as electron acceptor; otherwise, the heterotrophic bacteria would compete NO and space with anammox and n-damo bacteria in the inner layers and reduce the nitrogen and methane removal efficiency.

Anaerobic co-digestion of municipal food waste and sewage sludge: A comparative life cycle assessment in the context of a waste service provision.This study used life cycle assessment to evaluate the environmental impact of anaerobic co-digestion (AcoD) and compared it against the current waste management system in two case study areas. Results indicated AcoD to have less environmental impact for all categories modelled excluding human toxicity, despite the need to collect and pre-treat food waste separately. Uncertainty modelling confirmed that AcoD has a 100% likelihood of a smaller global warming potential, and for acidification, eutrophication and fossil fuel depletion AcoD carried a greater than 85% confidence of inducing a lesser impact than the current waste service.

Factors affecting on hythane bio-generation via anaerobic digestion of mono-ethylene glycol contaminated wastewater: Inoculum-to-substrate ratio, nitrogen-to-phosphorus ratio and pH.This study aims to assess the effect of inoculum-to-substrate ratio (ISR) and nitrogen-to-phosphorus balance on hythane production from thermophilic anaerobic decomposition of mono-ethylene glycol (MEG) contaminated wastewater. ISRs ranging from 2.65 to 13.23gVSS/gCOD were employed, whereas the tested N/P ratios varied from 4.6 to 8.5. Maximum methane and hydrogen yields (MY and HY) of 151.86±10.8 and 22.27±1.1mL/gCOD were achieved at ISRs of 5.29 and 3.78gVSS/gCOD, respectively. HY increased 1.45-fold by decreasing N/P from 8.5 to 4.6, while MY improved 1.6-fold by increasing N/P from 4.6 to 5.5. Methane production was strongly influenced by initial NH-N, compared to initial PO-P. Optimal HY of 47.55mL/gCOD was achieved at pH 5.0 and ISR of 3.78gVSS/gCOD using thermal-treated sludge. Three-dimensional regression model was applied for the combined effect of initial MEG, NH-N and PO-P on hythane production. Potential economic benefits of hythane production from MEG contaminated wastewater were assessed.

Anaerobic co-digestion: A critical review of mathematical modelling for performance optimization.Anaerobic co-digestion (AcoD) is a pragmatic approach to simultaneously manage organic wastes and produce renewable energy. This review demonstrates the need for improving AcoD modelling capacities to simulate the complex physicochemical and biochemical processes. Compared to mono-digestion, AcoD is more susceptible to process instability, as it operates at a higher organic loading and significant variation in substrate composition. Data corroborated here reveal that it is essential to model the transient variation in pH and inhibitory intermediates (e.g. ammonia and organic acids) for AcoD optimization. Mechanistic models (based on the ADM1 framework) have become the norm for AcoD modelling. However, key features in current AcoD models, especially relationships between system performance and co-substrates' properties, organic loading, and inhibition mechanisms, remain underdeveloped. It is also necessary to predict biogas quantity and composition as well as biosolids quality by considering the conversion and distribution of sulfur, phosphorus, and nitrogen during AcoD.

13
C Metabolic Flux Analysis of acetate conversion to lipids by Yarrowia lipolytica.Volatile fatty acids (VFAs) are an inexpensive and renewable carbon source that can be generated from gas fermentation and anaerobic digestion of fermentable wastes. The oleaginous yeast Yarrowia lipolytica is a promising biocatalyst that can utilize VFAs and convert them into triacylglycerides (TAGs). However, currently there is limited knowledge on the metabolism of Y. lipolytica when cultured on VFAs. To develop a better understanding, we used acetate as the sole carbon source to culture two strains, a control strain and a previously engineered strain for lipid overaccumulation. For both strains, metabolism during the growth phase and lipid production phase were investigated by metabolic flux analysis using two parallel sodium acetate tracers. The resolved flux distributions demonstrate that the glyoxylate shunt pathway is constantly active and the flux through gluconeogenesis varies depending on strain and phase. In particular, by regulating the activities of malate transport and pyruvate kinase, the cells divert only a portion of the glyoxylate shunt flux required to satisfy the needs for anaplerotic reactions and NADPH production through gluconeogenesis and the oxidative pentose phosphate pathway (PPP). Excess flux flows back to the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle for energy production. As with the case of glucose as the substrate, the primary source for lipogenic NADPH is derived from the oxidative PPP.

A modeling approach to direct interspecies electron transfer process in anaerobic transformation of ethanol to methane.Recent studies have shown that direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET) plays an important part in contributing to methane production from anaerobic digestion. However, so far anaerobic digestion models that have been proposed only consider two pathways for methane production, namely, acetoclastic methanogenesis and hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis, via indirect interspecies hydrogen transfer, which lacks an effective way for incorporating DIET into this paradigm. In this work, a new mathematical model is specifically developed to describe DIET process in anaerobic digestion through introducing extracellular electron transfer as a new pathway for methane production, taking anaerobic transformation of ethanol to methane as an example. The developed model was able to successfully predict experimental data on methane dynamics under different experimental conditions, supporting the validity of the developed model. Modeling predictions clearly demonstrated that DIET plays an important role in contributing to overall methane production (up to 33 %) and conductive material (i.e., carbon cloth) addition would significantly promote DIET through increasing ethanol conversion rate and methane production rate. The model developed in this work will potentially enhance our current understanding on syntrophic metabolism via DIET.

Anaerobic co-digestion of spent coffee grounds with different waste feedstocks for biogas production.Proper management of spent coffee grounds has become a challenging problem as the production of this waste residue has increased rapidly worldwide. This study investigated the feasibility of the anaerobic co-digestion of spent coffee ground with various organic wastes, i.e., food waste, Ulva, waste activated sludge, and whey, for biomethanation. The effect of co-digestion was evaluated for each tested co-substrate in batch biochemical methane potential tests by varying the substrate mixing ratio. Co-digestion with waste activated sludge had an apparent negative effect on both the yield and production rate of methane. Meanwhile, the other co-substrates enhanced the reaction rate while maintaining methane production at a comparable or higher level to that of the mono-digestion of spent coffee ground. The reaction rate increased with the proportion of co-substrates without a significant loss in methanation potential. These results suggest the potential to reduce the reaction time and thus the reactor capacity without compromising methane production.

Optimising the anaerobic co-digestion of urban organic waste using dynamic bioconversion mathematical modelling.Mathematical anaerobic bioconversion models are often used as a convenient way to simulate the conversion of organic materials to biogas. The aim of the study was to apply a mathematical model for simulating the anaerobic co-digestion of various types of urban organic waste, in order to develop strategies for controlling and optimising the co-digestion process. The model parameters were maintained in the same way as the original dynamic bioconversion model, albeit with minor adjustments, to simulate the co-digestion of food and garden waste with mixed sludge from a wastewater treatment plant in a continuously stirred tank reactor. The model's outputs were validated with experimental results obtained in thermophilic conditions, with mixed sludge as a single substrate and urban organic waste as a co-substrate at hydraulic retention times of 30, 20, 15 and 10 days. The predicted performance parameter (methane productivity and yield) and operational parameter (concentration of ammonia and volatile fatty acid) values were reasonable and displayed good correlation and accuracy. The model was later applied to identify optimal scenarios for an urban organic waste co-digestion process. The simulation scenario analysis demonstrated that increasing the amount of mixed sludge in the co-substrate had a marginal effect on the reactor performance. In contrast, increasing the amount of food waste and garden waste resulted in improved performance.

A fast linear predictive adaptive model of packed bed coupled with UASB reactor treating onion waste to produce biofuel.Agro-industrial wastes are an energy source for different industries. However, its application has not reached small industries. Previous and current research activities performed on the acidogenic phase of two-phase anaerobic digestion processes deal particularly with process optimization of the acid-phase reactors operating with a wide variety of substrates, both soluble and complex in nature. Mathematical models for anaerobic digestion have been developed to understand and improve the efficient operation of the process. At present, lineal models with the advantages of requiring less data, predicting future behavior and updating when a new set of data becomes available have been developed. The aim of this research was to contribute to the reduction of organic solid waste, generate biogas and develop a simple but accurate mathematical model to predict the behavior of the UASB reactor.
The system was maintained separate for 14 days during which hydrolytic and acetogenic bacteria broke down onion waste, produced and accumulated volatile fatty acids. On this day, two reactors were coupled and the system continued for 16 days more. The biogas and methane yields and volatile solid reduction were 0.6 ± 0.05 m (kg VS), 0.43 ± 0.06 m (kg VS) and 83.5 ± 9.8 %, respectively. The model application showed a good prediction of all process parameters defined; maximum error between experimental and predicted value was 1.84 % for alkalinity profile.
A linear predictive adaptive model for anaerobic digestion of onion waste in a two-stage process was determined under batch-fed condition. Organic load rate (OLR) was maintained constant for the entire operation, modifying effluent hydrolysis reactor feed to UASB reactor. This condition avoids intoxication of UASB reactor and also limits external buffer addition.

Modelling anaerobic digestion in a biogas reactor: ADM1 model development with lactate as an intermediate (Part I).The Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) was extended to include lactate, a crucial metabolic product during sugar fermentation. This study tests the validity of the modified ADM1 model in improving the predictions of a standard biogas reactor. This reactor was prepared in the laboratory with simple organic substrates with an intention to represent an 'average biogas plant'. Kinetic parameters were determined from a lactic acid enriched steady-state reactor. The parameters were adjusted further in order to acquire satisfying simulation results systematically with the batch experiments and then against the standard biogas reactor. Arresting methanogenesis revealed that lactate degradation occurred majorly via acetate followed by propionate, and a non-negligible proportion of butyrate too was found, which were further updated in the model. The modified ADM1 provided a successful correlation with the experimental results for the batch and continuous experiments. We justified that inclusion of lactate in the model resulted in optimized simulation for both biogas and methane content in the standard biogas reactor.

Modelling anaerobic digestion in an industrial biogas digester: Application of lactate-including ADM1 model (Part II).A modified Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1xp) including lactate was applied to a full-scale biogas plant. This model considers monosaccharides to degrade through lactic acid, which further degrades majorly into acetate followed by propionate and butyrate. Experimental data were derived from the previous works in the same laboratory, and the proposed parameters were validated against batch experiments. After successful validation, the biogas plant bearing a fermenter size of 7 dam and operated with food waste and cattle manure was simulated. The biogas production and methane content were reliably simulated, and a good fit could be obtained against the experimental data with an average difference of less than 1%. When compared to the original ADM1 model, the performance of the lactate-incorporated model was found to be improved. Inclusion of lactate as a parameter in the ADM1xp model is recommended for an increased sensitivity and enhanced prediction principally for systems dealing with high carbohydrate and lactate loads.

Evaluation of A Novel Split-Feeding Anaerobic/Oxic Baffled Reactor (A/OBR) For Foodwaste Anaerobic Digestate: Performance, Modeling and Bacterial Community.To enhance the treatment efficiency from an anaerobic digester, a novel six-compartment anaerobic/oxic baffled reactor (A/OBR) was employed. Two kinds of split-feeding A/OBRs R2 and R3, with influent fed in the 1, 3 and 5 compartment of the reactor simultaneously at the respective ratios of 6:3:1 and 6:2:2, were compared with the regular-feeding reactor R1 when all influent was fed in the 1 compartment (control). Three aspects, the COD removal, the hydraulic characteristics and the bacterial community, were systematically investigated, compared and evaluated. The results indicated that R2 and R3 had similar tolerance to loading shock, but the R2 had the highest COD removal of 91.6% with a final effluent of 345 mg/L. The mixing patterns in both split-feeding reactors were intermediate between plug-flow and completely-mixed, with dead spaces between 8.17% and 8.35% compared with a 31.9% dead space in R1. Polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) analysis revealed that the split-feeding strategy provided a higher bacterial diversity and more stable bacterial community than that in the regular-feeding strategy. Further analysis indicated that Firmicutes, Bacteroidetes, and Proteobacteria were the dominant bacteria, among which Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes might be responsible for organic matter degradation and Proteobacteria for nitrification and denitrification.

Tissue metabolism and host-microbial interactions in the intestinal mucosa.In recent years, studies in the gastrointestinal (GI) mucosa have taught us a number of important lessons related to tissue oxygenation and metabolism in health and disease. The highly vascularized mucosa lies immediately adjacent to an anaerobic lumen containing trillions of metabolically active microbes (i.e. the microbiome) that results in one of the more austere tissue microenvironments in the body. These studies have also implicated a prominent role for oxygen metabolism and hypoxia in inflammation, so called "inflammatory hypoxia", that results from the activation of multiple oxygen consuming enzymes. Inflammation-associated shifts in the composition of the microbiome and microbial-derived metabolites have revealed a prominent role for the transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) in the regulation of key target genes that promote inflammatory resolution. Analyses of these pathways have provided a multitude of opportunities for understanding basic mechanisms of both homeostasis and disease and have defined new targets for intervention. Here, we review recent advances in our understanding of metabolic influences on host-microbe interactions in the GI mucosa.

Impact of co-pretreatment of calcium hydroxide and steam explosion on anaerobic digestion efficiency with corn stover.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is an effective way to utilize the abundant resource of corn stover (CS). In this light, Ca(OH) pretreatment alone, steam explosion (SE) pretreatment alone, and co-pretreatment of Ca(OH) and SE were applied to improve the digestion efficiency of CS. Results showed that AD of co-pretreated CS with 1.0% Ca(OH) and SE at 1.5 MPa achieved the highest cumulative methane yield of [Formula: see text], which was 61.54% significantly higher (p < .01) than untreated CS. The biodegradability value of CS after co-pretreatment enhanced from 43.03% to 69.52%. Methane yield could be well fitted by the first-order model and the modified Gompertz model. In addition, composition and structural changes of CS after pretreatment were analyzed by a fiber analyzer, scanning electron microscopy, Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy, and X-ray diffraction. The validated results indicated that co-pretreatment of Ca(OH) and SE was efficient to improve the digestion performance of CS and might be a suitable method for agricultural waste pretreatment in the future AD industry.

Wastewater sludges pretreated by different oxidation systems at mild conditions to promote the biogas formation in anaerobic processes.The effect of different oxidation processes at mild conditions including the coupled-Fenton (sono-Fenton, photo-Fenton, and sono-photo-Fenton) and their blank systems (ultrasound, ultraviolet, zero valent iron, and Fenton) on anaerobic digestion of the sludge for biogas production was investigated. Ultrasounds led to the highest organic matter solubilization (3.8 up to 5.2 g chemical oxygen demand (COD)/L, for the raw and treated sludge, respectively), while for the rest, organic matter transformation was observed resulting in an almost soluble COD net balance. Results indicated that for the most oxidative processes, the released organic matter was probably mineralized by the hydroxyl radicals produced during the treatments. It is interesting to remark that even if the biochemical methane potential was barely enhanced by the different methods applied, all the methods demonstrated to enhance the overall kinetics of the biomethanation processes, increasing the rapidly biodegradable fraction of the sludge.

Thermophilic and hyper-thermophilic co-digestion of waste activated sludge and fat, oil and grease: Evaluating and modeling methane production.Renewable energy and clean environment are two crucial requirements for our modern world. Low cost, energy production and limited environmental impact make anaerobic digestion (AD) a promising technology for stabilizing organic waste and in particular, sewage waste. The anaerobic co-digestion of thickened waste activated sludge (TWAS) and sewage treatment plant trapped fat, oil and grease (FOG) using different FOG-TWAS mixtures (20, 40, 60 and 80% of FOG based on total volatile solids (TVS)) were investigated in this study using both thermophilic (55 ± 1 °C) and two stages hyper-thermophilic/thermophilic (70 ± 1 °C and 55 ± 1 °C) anaerobic co-digestion. The hyper-thermophilic co-digestion approach as a part of the co-digestion process has been shown to be very useful in improving the methane production. During hyper-thermophilic biochemical methane potential (BMP) assay testing the sample with 60% FOG (based on TVS) has been shown to significantly increase the maximum methane production to 673.1 ± 14.0 ml of methane as compared to 316.4 ± 14.3 ml of methane for the control sample. This represents a 112.7% increase in methane production compared to the control sample considered in this paper. These results signify the importance of hyper-thermophilic digestion to the co-digestion of TWAS-FOG field.

A spreadsheet calculator for estimating biogas production and economic measures for UK-based farm-fed anaerobic digesters.This paper presents a spreadsheet calculator to estimate biogas production and the operational revenue and costs for UK-based farm-fed anaerobic digesters. There exist sophisticated biogas production models in published literature, but the application of these in farm-fed anaerobic digesters is often impractical. This is due to the limited measuring devices, financial constraints, and the operators being non-experts in anaerobic digestion. The proposed biogas production model is designed to use the measured process variables typically available at farm-fed digesters, accounting for the effects of retention time, temperature and imperfect mixing. The estimation of the operational revenue and costs allow the owners to assess the most profitable approach to run the process. This would support the sustained use of the technology. The calculator is first compared with literature reported data, and then applied to the digester unit on a UK Farm to demonstrate its use in a practical setting.

Application of fuzzy neural networks for modeling of biodegradation and biogas production in a full-scale internal circulation anaerobic reactor.This paper presents the development and evaluation of three fuzzy neural network (FNN) models for a full-scale anaerobic digestion system treating paper-mill wastewater. The aim was the investigation of feasibility of the approach-based control system for the prediction of effluent quality and biogas production from an internal circulation (IC) anaerobic reactor system. To improve FNN performance, fuzzy subtractive clustering was used to identify model's architecture and optimize fuzzy rule, and a total of 5 rules were extracted in the IF-THEN format. Findings of this study clearly indicated that, compared to NN models, FNN models had smaller RMSE and MAPE as well as bigger R for the testing datasets than NN models. The proposed FNN model produced smaller deviations and exhibited a superior predictive performance on forecasting of both effluent quality and biogas (methane) production rates with satisfactory determination coefficients greater than 0.90. From the results, it was concluded that FNN modeling could be applied in IC anaerobic reactor for predicting the biodegradation and biogas production using paper-mill wastewater.

Glutamine metabolism drives succinate accumulation in plasma and the lung during hemorrhagic shock.Metabolomic investigations have consistently reported succinate accumulation in plasma after critical injury. Succinate receptors have been identified on numerous tissues, and succinate has been directly implicated in postischemic inflammation, organ dysfunction, platelet activation, and the generation of reactive oxygen species, which may potentiate morbidity and mortality risk to patients. Metabolic flux (heavy-isotope labeling) studies demonstrate that glycolysis is not the primary source of increased plasma succinate during protracted shock. Glutamine is an alternative parent substrate for ATP generation during anaerobic conditions, a biochemical mechanism that ultimately supports cellular survival but produces succinate as a catabolite. We hypothesize that succinate accumulation during hemorrhagic shock is driven by glutaminolysis.
Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to hemorrhagic shock for 45 minutes (shock, n = 8) and compared with normotensive shams (sham, n = 8). At 15 minutes, animals received intravenous injection of C5-N2-glutamine solution (iLG). Blood, brain, heart, lung, and liver tissues were harvested at defined time points. Labeling distribution in samples was determined by ultrahigh-pressure liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry metabolomic analysis. Repeated-measures analysis of variance with Tukey comparison determined significance of relative fold change in metabolite level from baseline.
Hemorrhagic shock instigated succinate accumulation in plasma and lungs tissues (8.5- vs. 1.1-fold increase plasma succinate level from baseline, shock vs. sham, p = 0.001; 3.2-fold higher succinate level in lung tissue, shock vs. sham, p = 0.006). Metabolomic analysis identified labeled glutamine and labeled succinate in plasma (p = 0.002) and lung tissue (p = 0.013), confirming glutamine as the parent substrate. Kinetic analyses in shams showed constant total levels of all metabolites without significant change due to iLG.
Glutamine metabolism contributes to increased succinate concentration in plasma during hemorrhagic shock. The glutaminolytic pathway is implicated as a therapeutic target to prevent the contribution of succinate accumulation in plasma and the lung-to-postshock pathogenesis.

Biomethane potential of food waste: modeling the effects of mild thermal pretreatment and digestion temperature.In order to enhance anaerobic biodegradability of food waste (FW), thermal pretreatment was applied. The effectiveness in terms of biodegradability extent and process rate improvement was investigated. To this aim, Biomethane Potential tests were carried out under mesophilic and thermophilic conditions. The IWA anaerobic digestion Model 1 (ADM1), a powerful tool for modeling the anaerobic digestion (AD) of different substrates, was implemented to predict the methane production. Disintegration constant (k_dis) and maximum acetate uptake rate (km_ac) were identified as the most sensitive parameters and were calibrated over the observed methane production. Pretreatment improvement was more evident in enhancing parameters related to the process rate, such as solubilization extent (+153%) and disintegration constant (+18%), rather than increasing substrate biodegradability. Thermophilic conditions proved to be effective in speeding up the whole AD process, since all the kinetics were significantly improved (disintegration rate increased up to fivefold). Furthermore, it was demonstrated that, after k_dis and km_ac calibration, default thermophilic ADM1 parameters can be suitable to model FW digestion.

Treatment of an actual slaughterhouse wastewater by integration of biological and advanced oxidation processes: Modeling, optimization, and cost-effectiveness analysis.Biological and advanced oxidation processes are combined to treat an actual slaughterhouse wastewater (SWW) by a sequence of an anaerobic baffled reactor, an aerobic activated sludge reactor, and a UV/H2O2 photoreactor with recycle in continuous mode at laboratory scale. In the first part of this study, quadratic modeling along with response surface methodology are used for the statistical analysis and optimization of the combined process. The effects of the influent total organic carbon (TOC) concentration, the flow rate, the pH, the inlet H2O2 concentration, and their interaction on the overall treatment efficiency, CH4 yield, and H2O2 residual in the effluent of the photoreactor are investigated. The models are validated at different operating conditions using experimental data. Maximum TOC and total nitrogen (TN) removals of 91.29 and 86.05%, respectively, maximum CH4 yield of 55.72%, and minimum H2O2 residual of 1.45% in the photoreactor effluent were found at optimal operating conditions. In the second part of this study, continuous distribution kinetics is applied to establish a mathematical model for the degradation of SWW as a function of time. The agreement between model predictions and experimental values indicates that the proposed model could describe the performance of the combined anaerobic-aerobic-UV/H2O2 processes for the treatment of SWW. In the final part of the study, the optimized combined anaerobic-aerobic-UV/H2O2 processes with recycle were evaluated using a cost-effectiveness analysis to minimize the retention time, the electrical energy consumption, and the overall incurred treatment costs required for the efficient treatment of slaughterhouse wastewater effluents.

Hydrolysis rate constants at 10-25 °C can be more than doubled by a short anaerobic pre-hydrolysis at 35 °C.Hydrolysis is the first step of the anaerobic digestion of complex wastewater and considered as the rate limiting step especially at low temperature. Low temperature (10-25 °C) hydrolysis was investigated with and without application of a short pre-hydrolysis at 35 °C. Batch experiments were executed using cellulose and tributyrin as model substrates for carbohydrates and lipids. The results showed that the low temperature anaerobic hydrolysis rate constants increased by a factor of 1.5-10, when the short anaerobic pre-hydrolysis at 35 °C was applied. After the pre-hydrolysis phase at 35 °C and decreasing the temperature, no lag phase was observed in any case. Without the pre-hydrolysis, the lag phase for cellulose hydrolysis at 35-10 °C was 4-30 days. Tributyrin hydrolysis showed no lag phase at any temperature. The hydrolysis efficiency of cellulose increased from 40 to 62%, and from 9.6 to 40% after 9.1 days at 15 and 10 °C, respectively, when the pre-hydrolysis at 35 °C was applied. The hydrolysis efficiency of tributyrin at low temperatures with the pre-hydrolysis at 35 °C was similar to those without the pre-hydrolysis. The hydrolytic activity of the supernatant collected from the digestate after batch digestion of cellulose and tributyrin at 35 °C was higher than that of the supernatants collected from the low temperature (≤25 °C) digestates.

Mathematical models and bacterial communities for ammonia toxicity in mesophilic anaerobes not acclimated to high concentrations of ammonia.In this study, we evaluated ammonia toxicity in mesophilic anaerobic digestion at various pH values and total ammonia nitrogen (TAN) concentrations. We performed anaerobic toxicity assays (ATAs) to evaluate the toxicity effects of TAN and pH on mesophilic anaerobic digestion. Modeling based on the results of the ATAs indicated that the specific methanogenic activity (SMA) decreased by 30% at a TAN concentration higher than 3.0 g/L compared to a TAN concentration of 0 g/L. In addition, the highest SMA for a given TAN level (0.5-10.0 g/L) was observed at a pH of around 7.6. The results of bacterial community analyses showed that the diversity and richness of microorganisms with increasing TAN concentration were decreased. Chloroflexi and Synergistetes were the dominant phyla at TAN concentrations less than 3.0 g/L, and Firmicutes was the dominant phylum at TAN concentrations higher than 3.0 g/L, implying that the ammonia toxicity concentration may influence the kind of dominant species. In conclusion, to start a stable mesophilic anaerobic digestion concerning ammonia toxicity, a TAN concentration less than 3.0 g/L is preferable.

Effect of alkaline pretreatment on anaerobic digestion of olive mill solid waste.The present study evaluates the influence of alkaline (NaOH) pretreatment on anaerobic digestion of olive pomace. Batch hydrolysis experiments with different NaOH dosages, process durations and temperatures were conducted, in which the variation of olive pomace solubilization in the liquid phase was investigated. The effect of pretreatment on anaerobic digestion was studied through biochemical methane potential assays. The results demonstrated the effectiveness of the NaOH pretreatment in improving olive pomace solubilization as well as its biodegradability. Maximum specific methane yields were achieved at different NaOH dosages depending on the pretreatment temperature. Consequently, it was concluded that the two operating parameters of the pretreatment stage (NaOH dosage and temperature) may exert a joint effect on substrate biodegradability and methane yields. The highest methane yield (242NmLCH/gVS) was obtained for the material pretreated at 90°C, at a dosage of 1mmol/gVS (4% of VS).

CFD for wastewater treatment: an overview.Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) is a rapidly emerging field in wastewater treatment (WWT), with application to almost all unit processes. This paper provides an overview of CFD applied to a wide range of unit processes in water and WWT from hydraulic elements like flow splitting to physical, chemical and biological processes like suspended growth nutrient removal and anaerobic digestion. The paper's focus is on articulating the state of practice and research and development needs. The level of CFD's capability varies between different process units, with a high frequency of application in the areas of final sedimentation, activated sludge basin modelling and disinfection, and greater needs in primary sedimentation and anaerobic digestion. While approaches are comprehensive, generally capable of incorporating non-Newtonian fluids, multiphase systems and biokinetics, they are not broad, and further work should be done to address the diversity of process designs. Many units have not been addressed to date. Further needs are identified throughout, but common requirements include improved particle aggregation and breakup (flocculation), and improved coupling of biology and hydraulics.

Stoichiometry evaluation of biohydrogen production from various carbohydrates.In this paper, biochemical hydrogen potential (BHP) tests were conducted to investigate H production from different substrate with acid-treated anaerobic digested sludge at the mesophilic range. The sludge was collected from an anaerobic digester and was subjected to sulfuric acid pretreatments at pH 3 for 24 h. The effects of substrate type (glucose, fructose, and sucrose as carbon source) were investigated in batch experiments. Results showed that substrate degradation rate for all of the substrates was up 95 % and the electron equivalent balance showed good closure for glucose and sucrose. Batch experiments showed that the maximum molar hydrogen yield with glucose, fructose, and sucrose was 3.27, 3.16, and 6.46 mol H/mol of substrate. The maximum cumulative biohydrogen production was 1552, 1487, and 1366 mL and maximum hydrogen production rate was 308, 279, and 275 mL/h for glucose, sucrose, and fructose, respectively. The experimental results suggest that the formation of hydrogen associates with the main aqueous products, i.e., acetate butyrate.

Spatial decision support system to evaluate crop residue energy potential by anaerobic digestion.Implementing anaerobic digestion (AD) in energy production from crop residues requires development of decision tools to assess its feasibility and sustainability. A spatial decision support system (SDSS) was constructed to assist decision makers to select appropriate feedstock according to biomethanation potential, identify the most suitable location for biogas facilities, determine optimum plant capacity and supply chain, and evaluate associated risks and costs. SDSS involves a spatially explicit analysis, fuzzy multi-criteria analysis, and statistical and optimization models. The tool was validated on seven crop residues located in Santander, Colombia. For example, fique bagasse generates about 0.21millionm(3)CH4year(-1) (0.329m(3)CH4kg(-1) volatile solids) with a minimum profitable plant of about 2000tonyear(-1) and an internal rate of return of 10.5%. SDSS can be applied to evaluate other biomass resources, availability periods, and co-digestion potential.

Assessing the effect of different treatments on decomposition rate of dairy manure.Confined animal feeding operations (CAFOs) contribute to greenhouse gas emission, but the magnitude of these emissions as a function of operation size, infrastructure, and manure management are difficult to assess. Modeling is a viable option to estimate gaseous emission and nutrient flows from CAFOs. These models use a decomposition rate constant for carbon mineralization. However, this constant is usually determined assuming a homogenous mix of manure, ignoring the effects of emerging manure treatments. The aim of this study was to measure and compare the decomposition rate constants of dairy manure in single and three-pool decomposition models, and to develop an empirical model based on chemical composition of manure for prediction of a decomposition rate constant. Decomposition rate constants of manure before and after an anaerobic digester (AD), following coarse fiber separation, and fine solids removal were determined under anaerobic conditions for single and three-pool decomposition models. The decomposition rates of treated manure effluents differed significantly from untreated manure for both single and three-pool decomposition models. In the single-pool decomposition model, AD effluent containing only suspended solids had a relatively high decomposition rate of 0.060 d(-1), while liquid with coarse fiber and fine solids removed had the lowest rate of 0.013 d(-1). In the three-pool decomposition model, fast and slow decomposition rate constants (0.25 d(-1) and 0.016 d(-1) respectively) of untreated AD influent were also significantly different from treated manure fractions. A regression model to predict the decomposition rate of treated dairy manure fitted well (R(2) = 0.83) to observed data.

Effect of biochar addition on hydrogen and methane production in two-phase anaerobic digestion of aqueous carbohydrates food waste.Effect of biochar addition on hydrogen and methane production in two-phase anaerobic digestion of aqueous carbohydrates was studied using bench-scale bioreactors. The cultures with biochar additions were placed in 100ml reactors and incubated at 35°C and pH 5 for hydrogen production. The residual cultures were then used for methane production, incubated at 35°C and pH 7. Daily yields of hydrogen and methane and weekly yield of volatile fatty acids (VFA) were measured. The hydrogen and methane production potentials, rate and lag phases of the two phases were analysed using the Gompertz model. The results showed that biochar addition increased the maximum production rates of hydrogen by 32.5% and methane 41.6%, improved hydrogen yield by 31.0% and methane 10.0%, and shortened the lag phases in the two phases by 36.0% and 41.0%, respectively. Biochar addition also enhanced VFA generation during hydrogen production and VFA degradation in methane production.

Optimization of solid content, carbon/nitrogen ratio and food/inoculum ratio for biogas production from food waste.Biogas production from food waste has been used as an efficient waste treatment option for years. The methane yields from decomposition of waste are, however, highly variable under different operating conditions. In this study, a statistical experimental design method (Taguchi OA) was implemented to investigate the effects of simultaneous variations of three parameters on methane production. The parameters investigated were solid content (SC), carbon/nitrogen ratio (C/N) and food/inoculum ratio (F/I). Two sets of experiments were conducted with nine anaerobic reactors operating under different conditions. Optimum conditions were determined using statistical analysis, such as analysis of variance (ANOVA). A confirmation experiment was carried out at optimum conditions to investigate the validity of the results. Statistical analysis showed that SC was the most important parameter for methane production with a 45% contribution, followed by F/I ratio with a 35% contribution. The optimum methane yield of 151 l kg volatile solids (VS) was achieved after 24 days of digestion when SC was 4%, C/N was 28 and F/I were 0.3. The confirmation experiment provided a methane yield of 167 l kg VS after 24 days. The analysis showed biogas production from food waste may be increased by optimization of operating conditions.

Biogas Production: Microbiology and Technology.Biogas, containing energy-rich methane, is produced by microbial decomposition of organic material under anaerobic conditions. Under controlled conditions, this process can be used for the production of energy and a nutrient-rich residue suitable for use as a fertilising agent. The biogas can be used for production of heat, electricity or vehicle fuel. Different substrates can be used in the process and, depending on substrate character, various reactor technologies are available. The microbiological process leading to methane production is complex and involves many different types of microorganisms, often operating in close relationships because of the limited amount of energy available for growth. The microbial community structure is shaped by the incoming material, but also by operating parameters such as process temperature. Factors leading to an imbalance in the microbial community can result in process instability or even complete process failure. To ensure stable operation, different key parameters, such as levels of degradation intermediates and gas quality, are often monitored. Despite the fact that the anaerobic digestion process has long been used for industrial production of biogas, many questions need still to be resolved to achieve optimal management and gas yields and to exploit the great energy and nutrient potential available in waste material. This chapter discusses the different aspects that need to be taken into consideration to achieve optimal degradation and gas production, with particular focus on operation management and microbiology.

Methane production from formate, acetate and H2/CO2; focusing on kinetics and microbial characterization.For evaluating the methanogenesis from typical methanogenic precursors (formate, acetate and H2/CO2), CH4 production kinetics were investigated at 37±1°C in batch anaerobic digestion tests and stimulated by modified Gompertz model. The results showed that maximum methanation rate from formate, acetate and H2/CO2 were 19.58±0.49, 42.65±1.17 and 314.64±3.58NmL/gVS/d in digested manure system and 6.53±0.31, 132.04±3.96 and 640.16±19.92NmL/gVS/d in sewage sludge system during second generation incubation. Meanwhile the model could not fit well in granular sludge system, while the rate of formate methanation was faster than from H2/CO2 and acetate. Considering both the kinetic results and microbial assay we could conclude that H2/CO2 methanation was the fastest methanogenic step in digested manure and sewage sludge system with Methanomicrobiales as dominant methanogens, while granular sludge with Methanobacteriales as dominant methanogens contributed to the fastest formate methanation.

Enhancing biogas production of corn stover by fast pyrolysis pretreatment.A new thermo-chemical pretreatment by a lower temperature fast pyrolysis (LTFP) was applied to promote anaerobic digestion (AD) efficiency of corn stover (CS). The pretreatment experiment was performed by a fluidized bed pyrolysis reactor at 180, 200 and 220°C with a carrier gas flow rate of 4 and 3m(3)/h. The components characteristics, Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) images and Crystal Intensity (CrI) of the pretreated CS were tested to explore effectiveness of the pretreatment. The results showed that the cumulative methane production at 180°C for 4 and 3m(3)/h were 199.8 and 200.3mL/g TS, respectively. As compared to the untreated CS, the LTFP pretreatment significantly (a<0.05) increased the methane production by 18.07% and 18.33%, respectively. Methane production was well fitted by the Gompertz models, and the maximum methane potential and AD efficiency was obtained at 180°C for 3m(3)/h.

The effect of magnesium as activator and inhibitor of anaerobic digestion.Anaerobic digestion stands as a key technology in the emerging green energy economy. Mg(2+) has been identified as an important element to improve digesters methane production; however the inhibition risk that high Mg(2+) concentrations can cause to the AD process must also be considered when dosing Mg reagents and wastes containing Mg(2+). Despite its importance, Mg(2+) stimulation and inhibition mechanisms as well as threshold values are scarce in the literature. This research paper investigates the impact (stimulation and inhibition) of Mg(2+) on pig manure anaerobic digestion. Mathematical modelling was used to better understand the interaction between substrate, inoculum and magnesium, where Mg(2+) inhibition was modelled by a n-component non-competitive inhibition function. Modelling was done on absolute curves rather than specific methane productions curves (new approach) to account for the lower background methane production of the inoculum as the Mg(2+) concentration increased. Results showed that no stimulation or inhibition occurred between 40 (native concentration) and 400mgMg(2+)L(-1), while minor and major inhibition were observed at 750 and 1000mgMg(2+)L(-1), and at 2000 and 4000mgMg(2+)L(-1), respectively. Mg(2+) half maximal inhibition concentration was estimated at 2140mgMg(2+)L(-1) with an inhibition order of 2. The latter indicates that Mg(2+) inhibition is a progressive rather than a steep inhibition mechanism.

Horse manure as feedstock for anaerobic digestion.Horse keeping is of great economic, social and environmental benefit for society, but causes environmental impacts throughout the whole chain from feed production to manure treatment. According to national statistics, the number of horses in Sweden is continually increasing and is currently approximately 360,000. This in turn leads to increasing amounts of horse manure that have to be managed and treated. Current practices could cause local and global environmental impacts due to poor performance or lack of proper management. Horse manure with its content of nutrients and organic material can however contribute to fertilisation of arable land and recovery of renewable energy following anaerobic digestion. At present anaerobic digestion of horse manure is not a common treatment. In this paper the potential for producing biogas and biofertiliser from horse manure is analysed based on a thorough literature review in combination with mathematical modelling and simulations. Anaerobic digestion was chosen as it has a high degree of resource conservation, both in terms of energy (biogas) and nutrients (digestate). Important factors regarding manure characteristics and operating factors in the biogas plant are identified. Two crucial factors are the type and amount of bedding material used, which has strong implications for feedstock characteristics, and the type of digestion method applied (dry or wet process). Straw and waste paper are identified as the best materials in an energy point of view. While the specific methane yield decreases with a high amount of bedding, the bedding material still makes a positive contribution to the energy balance. Thermophilic digestion increases the methane generation rate and yield, compared with mesophilic digestion, but the total effect is negligible.

A model for methane production in anaerobic digestion of swine wastewater.A study was conducted using a laboratory-scale anaerobic sequencing batch digester to investigate the quantitative influence of organic loading rates (OLRs) on the methane production rate during digestion of swine wastewater at temperatures between 15 °C and 35 °C. The volumetric production rate of methane (Rp) at different OLRs and temperatures was obtained. The maximum volumetric methane production rates (Rpmax) were 0.136, 0.796, 1.294, 1.527 and 1.952 LCH4 L(-1) d(-1) at corresponding organic loading rates of 1.2, 3.6, 5.6, 5.6 and 7.2 g volatile solids L(-1) d(-1), respectively, which occurred at 15, 20, 25, 30 and 35 °C, respectively. A new model was developed to describe the quantitative relationship between Rp and OLR. In addition to the maximum volumetric methane production rate (Rpmax) and the half-saturation constant (KLR) commonly used in previous models such as the modified Stover-Kincannon model and Deng model, the new model introduced a new index (KD) that denoted the speed of volumetric methane production rate approaching the maximum as a function of temperature. The new model more satisfactorily described the influence of OLR on the rate of methane production than other models as confirmed by higher determination coefficients (R(2)) (0.9717-0.9900) and lower bias between the experimental and predicted data in terms of the root mean square error and the Akaike Information Criterion. Data from other published research also validated the applicability and generality of the new kinetic model to different types of wastewater.

Determination of the fractions of syntrophically oxidized acetate in a mesophilic methanogenic reactor through an (12)C and (13)C isotope-based kinetic model.In order to accurately describe the carbon flow in anaerobic digestion processes, this work investigates the acetate degradation pathways through the use of stable carbon isotope analysis and a mathematical model. Batch assays using labeled (13)C acetate were employed to distinguish the acetate consumption through methanogenic Archaea and acetate-oxidizing Bacteria. Suspended and sessile biomass, with over 400 days of retention time, from a mesophilic (36.5 °C) upflow anaerobic filter was used as inocula in these assays. A three-process model for acetoclastic methanogenesis and syntrophic acetate oxidation (SAO) was developed to allow for a precise quantification of the SAO contribution. The model distinguishes carbon atoms in light and heavy isotopes, (12)C and (13)C, respectively, which permitted the simulation of the isotope ratios variation in addition to gas production, gas composition and acetate concentrations. The model indicated oxidized fractions of acetate between 7 and 18%. Due to the low free ammonia inhibition potential for the acetoclastic methanogens in these assays these findings point to the biomass retention times as a driven factor for the SAO pathway. The isotope-based kinetic model developed here also describes the δ(13)C variations in unlabeled assays accurately and has the potential to determine biological (13)C fractionation factors.

Synergism and effect of high initial volatile fatty acid concentrations during food waste and pig manure anaerobic co-digestion.Anaerobic co-digestion of food waste (FW) and pig manure (PM) was undertaken in batch mode at 37°C in order to identify and quantify the synergistic effects of co-digestion on the specific methane yield (SMY) and reaction kinetics. The effects of the high initial volatile fatty acid (VFA) concentrations in PM on synergy observed during co-digestion, and on kinetic modelling were investigated. PM to FW mixing ratios of 1/0, 4/1, 3/2, 2/3, 1/4 and 0/1 (VS basis) were examined. No VFA or ammonia inhibition was observed. The highest SMY of 521±29ml CH4/gVS was achieved at a PM/FW mixing ratio of 1/4. Synergy in terms of both reaction kinetics and SMY occurred at PM/FW mixing ratios of 3/2, 2/3 and 1/4. Initial VFA concentrations did not explain the synergy observed. Throughout the study the conversion of butyric acid was inhibited. Due to the high initial VFA content of PM, conventional first order and Gompertz models were inappropriate for determining reaction kinetics. A dual pooled first order model was found to provide the best fit for the data generated in this study. The optimal mixing ratio in terms of both reaction kinetics and SMY was found at a PM/FW mixing ratio of 1/4.

A systemic evolutionary approach to cancer: Hepatocarcinogenesis as a paradigm.The systemic evolutionary theory of cancer pathogenesis posits that cancer is generated by the de-emergence of the eukaryotic cell system and by the re-emergence of its archaea (genetic material and cytoplasm) and prokaryotic (mitochondria) subsystems with an uncoordinated behavior. This decreased coordination can be caused by a change in the organization of the eukaryote environment (mainly chronic inflammation), damage to mitochondrial DNA and/or to its membrane composition by many agents (e.g. viruses, chemicals, hydrogenated fatty acids in foods) or damage to nuclear DNA that controls mitochondrial energy production or metabolic pathways, including glycolysis. Here, we postulate that the two subsystems (the evolutionarily inherited archaea and the prokaryote) in a eukaryotic differentiated cell are well integrated, and produce the amount of clean energy that is constantly required to maintain the differentiated status. Conversely, when protracted injuries impair cell or tissue organization, the amount of energy necessary to maintain cell differentiation can be restricted, and this may cause gradual de-differentiation of the eukaryotic cell over time. In cirrhotic liver, for example, this process can be favored by reduced oxygen availability to the organ due to an altered vasculature and the fibrotic barrier caused by the disease. Thus, hepatocarcinogenesis is an ideal example to support our hypothesis. When cancer arises, the pre-eukaryote subsystems become predominant, as shown by the metabolic alterations of cancer cells (anaerobic glycolysis and glutamine utilization), and by their capacity for proliferation and invasion, resembling the primitive symbiotic components of the eukaryotic cell.

Hardwiring microbes via direct interspecies electron transfer: mechanisms and applications.Multicellular microbial communities are important catalysts in engineered systems designed to treat wastewater, remediate contaminated sediments, and produce energy from biomass. Understanding the interspecies interactions within them is therefore essential to design effective processes. The flow of electrons within these communities is especially important in the determination of reaction possibilities (thermodynamics) and rates (kinetics). Conventional models of electron transfer incorporate the diffusion of metabolites generated by one organism and consumed by a second, frequently referred to as mediated interspecies electron transfer (MIET). Evidence has emerged in the last decade that another method, called direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET), may occur between organisms or in conjunction with electrically conductive materials. Recent research has suggested that DIET can be stimulated in engineered systems to improve desired treatment goals and energy recovery in systems such as anaerobic digesters and microbial electrochemical technologies. In this review, we summarize the latest understanding of DIET mechanisms, the associated microorganisms, and the underlying thermodynamics. We also critically examine approaches to stimulate DIET in engineered systems and assess their effectiveness. We find that in most cases attempts to promote DIET in mixed culture systems do not yield the improvements expected based on defined culture studies. Uncertainties of other processes that may be co-occurring in real systems, such as contaminant sorption and biofilm promotion, need to be further investigated. We conclude by identifying areas of future research related to DIET and its application in biological treatment processes.

Dynamic changes of carbon isotope apparent fractionation factor to describe transition to syntrophic acetate oxidation during cellulose and acetate methanization.To identify predominant metabolic pathway for cellulose methanization new equations that take into account dynamics of 13C are added to the basic model of cellulose methanization. The correct stoichiometry of hydrolysis, acidogenesis, acetogenesis and methanogenesis steps including biomass is considered. Using experimental data by Laukenmann et al. [Identification of methanogenic pathway in anaerobic digesters using stable carbon isotopes. Eng. Life Sci. 2010;10:1-6], who reported about the importance of ace`tate oxidation during mesophilic cellulose methanization, the model confirmed that, at high biomass concentration of acetate oxidizers, the carbon isotope fractionation factor amounts to about 1.085. The same model, suggested firstly for cellulose degradation, was used to describe, secondly, changes in, and in methane and carbon dioxide during mesophylic acetate methanization measured by Grossin-Debattista [Fractionnements isotopiques (13C/12C) engendres par la methanogenese: apports pour la comprehension des processus de biodegradation lors de la digestion anaerobie [doctoral thesis]. 2011. Bordeaux: Universite Bordeaux-1;2011. Available from: http://ori-oai.u-bordeaux1.fr/pdf/2011/GROSSIN-DEBATTISTA_JULIEN_2011.pdf . French].The model showed that under various ammonium concentrations, at dominating acetoclastic methanogenesis, the value decreases over time to a low level (1.016), while at dominating syntrophic acetate oxidation, coupled with hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis, slightly increases, reaching 1.060 at the end of incubation.

Is anaerobic digestion effective for the removal of organic micropollutants and biological activities from sewage sludge?The occurrence of emerging organic micropollutants (OMPs) in sewage sludge has been widely reported; nevertheless, their fate during sludge treatment remains unclear. The objective of this work was to study the fate of OMPs during mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic digestion (AD), the most common processes used for sludge stabilization, by using raw sewage sludge without spiking OMPs. Moreover, the results of analytical chemistry were complemented with biological assays in order to verify the possible adverse effects (estrogenic and genotoxic) on the environment and human health in view of an agricultural (re)use of digested sludge. Musk fragrances (AHTN, HHCB), ibuprofen (IBP) and triclosan (TCS) were the most abundant compounds detected in sewage sludge. In general, the efficiency of the AD process was not dependent on operational parameters but compound-specific: some OMPs were highly biotransformed (e.g. sulfamethoxazole and naproxen), while others were only slightly affected (e.g. IBP and TCS) or even unaltered (e.g. AHTN and HHCB). The MCF-7 assay evidenced that estrogenicity removal was driven by temperature. The Ames test did not show point mutation in Salmonella typhimurium while the Comet test exhibited a genotoxic effect on human leukocytes attenuated by AD. This study highlights the importance of combining chemical analysis and biological activities in order to establish appropriate operational strategies for a safer disposal of sewage sludge. Actually, it was demonstrated that temperature has an insignificant effect on the disappearance of the parent compounds while it is crucial to decrease estrogenicity.

Batch anaerobic digestion of synthetic military base food waste and cardboard mixtures.Austere US military bases typically dispose of solid wastes, including large fractions of food waste (FW) and corrugated cardboard (CCB), by open dumping, landfilling, or burning. Anaerobic digestion (AD) offers an opportunity to reduce pollution and recover useful energy. This study aimed to evaluate the rates and yields of AD for FW-CCB mixtures. Batch AD was analyzed at substrate concentrations of 1-50g total chemical oxygen demand (COD)L(-1) using response surface methodology. At low concentrations, higher proportions of FW were correlated with faster specific methanogenic activities and greater final methane yields; however, concentrations of FW ⩾18.75gCODL(-1) caused inhibition. Digestion of mixtures with ⩾75% CCB occurred slowly but achieved methane yields >70%. Greater shifts in microbial communities were observed at higher substrate concentrations. Statistical models of methane yield and specific methanogenic activity indicated that FW and CCB exhibited no considerable interactions as substrates for AD.

A MLST Clade 2 Clostridium difficile strain with a variant TcdB induces severe inflammatory and oxidative response associated with mucosal disruption.The epidemiology of Clostridium difficile infections is highly dynamic as new strains continue to emerge worldwide. Here we present a detailed analysis of a new C. difficile strain (ICC-45) recovered from a cancer patient in Brazil that died from severe diarrhea. A polyphasic approach assigned a new PCR-ribotype and PFGE macrorestriction pattern to strain ICC-45, which is toxigenic (tcdA(+), tcdB(+) and ctdB(+)) and classified as ST41 from MLST Clade 2 and toxinotype IXb. Strain ICC-45 encodes for a variant TcdB that induces a distinct CPE in agreement with its toxinotype. Unlike epidemic NAP1/027 strains, which are also classified to MLST Clade 2, strain ICC-45 is susceptible to fluoroquinolones and does not overproduce toxins TcdA and TcdB. However, supernatants from strain ICC-45 and a NAP1/027 strain produced similar expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, epithelial damage, and oxidative stress response in the mouse ileal loop model. These results highlight inflammation and oxidative stress as common features in the pathogenesis of C. difficile Clade 2 strains. Finally, this work contributes to the description of differences in virulence among various C. difficile strains.

Ammonia emissions from an anaerobic digestion plant estimated using atmospheric measurements and dispersion modelling.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is becoming increasingly implemented within organic waste treatment operations. The storage and processing of large volumes of organic wastes through AD has been identified as a significant source of ammonia (NH3) emissions, however the totality of ammonia emissions from an AD plant have not been previously quantified. The emissions from an AD plant processing food waste were estimated through integrating ambient NH3 concentration measurements, atmospheric dispersion modelling, and comparison with published emission factors (EFs). Two dispersion models (ADMS and a backwards Lagrangian stochastic (bLS) model) were applied to calculate emission estimates. The bLS model (WindTrax) was used to back-calculate a total (top-down) emission rate for the AD plant from a point of continuous NH3 measurement downwind from the plant. The back-calculated emission rates were then input to the ADMS forward dispersion model to make predictions of air NH3 concentrations around the site, and evaluated against weekly passive sampler NH3 measurements. As an alternative approach emission rates from individual sources within the plant were initially estimated by applying literature EFs to the available site parameters concerning the chemical composition of waste materials, room air concentrations, ventilation rates, etc. The individual emission rates were input to ADMS and later tuned by fitting the simulated ambient concentrations to the observed (passive sampler) concentration field, which gave an excellent match to measurements after an iterative process. The total emission from the AD plant thus estimated by a bottom-up approach was 16.8±1.8mgs(-1), which was significantly higher than the back-calculated top-down estimate (7.4±0.78mgs(-1)). The bottom-up approach offered a more realistic treatment of the source distribution within the plant area, while the complexity of the site was not ideally suited to the bLS method, thus the bottom-up method is believed to give a better estimate of emissions. The storage of solid digestate and the aerobic treatment of liquid effluents at the site were the greatest sources of NH3 emissions.

Bio-hydrolysis and bio-hydrogen production from food waste by thermophilic and hyperthermophilic anaerobic process.High-temperature pretreatment plays a key role in the anaerobic digestion of food waste (FW). However, the suitable temperature is not yet determined. In this work, a long-term experiment was conducted to compare hydrolysis, acidogenesis, acetogenesis, and hydrogen production at 55°C and 70°C, using real FW in CSTR reactors. The results obtained indicated that acidification was the rate-limiting step at both temperatures with similar process kinetics characterizations. However, the thermophilic pretreatment was more advantageous than the hyperthermophilic with suspended solids solubilization of 47.7% and 29.5% and total VFA vs. soluble COD ratio of 15.2% and 4.9%, for thermophilic and hyperthermophilic treatment, respectively, with a hydrolytic reaction time (HRT) of 10days and an OLR of 14kgCOD/m(3)d. Moreover, stable hydrogen yield (70.7ml-H2/gVSin) and content in off gas (58.6%) was achieved at HRT 5days, pH 5.5, and temperature of 55°C, as opposed to 70°C.

The dynamics of an anaerobic digestion of crop substrates with an unfavourable carbon to nitrogen ratio.The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of the characteristics of basic crop substrates, such as the carbon, nitrogen, ash and volatile fatty acids contents, on the dynamics of the anaerobic digestion process. For this purpose, the stepwise anaerobic digestion of silage from six different plant species was carried out. Scaled probability distributions (log-normal, log-logistic, logistic, Weibull and Gompertz) were used to approximate the cumulative methane production curves obtained. The results indicated that the Gompertz distribution best fit the process. The hazard function of the Gompertz distribution was used to describe the process change dynamics. Ridge regression models were made and tested to clarify the impact of the crop properties on the distribution parameters. The analysis results indicated that the initial rate of the process depended on the reactor acidity and that the nitrogen content of the substrate was a key factor that affected the process dynamics.

Mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion of poultry dropping and Carica papaya peels: Modelling and process parameter optimization study.The study evaluated anaerobic co-digestion of poultry dropping and pawpaw peels and the optimization of important process parameters. The physic-chemical analyses of the substrates were done using standard methods after application of mechanical, thermal and chemical pre-treatments methods. Gas chromatography analysis revealed the gas composition to be within the range of 66-68% methane and 18-23% carbon dioxide. The study equally revealed that combination of the different pre-treatment methods enhanced enormous biogas yield from the digestion. Optimization of the generated biogas data were carried out using the Response Surface Methodology and the Artificial Neural Networks. The coefficient of determination (R(2)) for RSM (0.9181) was lower compare to that of ANN (0.9828). This shows that ANN model gives higher accuracy than RSM model for the current. Further usage of Carica papaya peels for biogas generation is advocated.

Dynamic effect of leachate recirculation on batch mode solid state anaerobic digestion: Influence of recirculated volume, leachate to substrate ratio and recirculation periodicity.Performances of batch mode solid state anaerobic digestion (SSAD) were investigated through several leachate recirculation strategies. Three parameters were shown to particularly influence methane production rates (MPR) and methane yields: the length of the interval between two recirculation events, the leachate to substrate (L:S) ratio and the volume of leachate recirculated. A central composite factor design was used to determine the influence of each parameter on methane production. Results showed that lengthening the interval between two recirculation events reduced methane yield. This effect can be counteracted by recirculating a large volume of leachate at a low L:S ratio. Steady methane production can be obtained by recirculating small amounts of leachate, and by lengthening the interval between two recirculations, regardless of the L:S ratio. However, several combinations of these parameters led to similar performances meaning that leachate recirculation practices can be modified as required by the specific constraints SSAD plants configurations.

Biological Processes for Hydrogen Production.Methane is produced usually from organic waste in a straightforward anaerobic digestion process. However, hydrogen production is technically more challenging as more stages are needed to convert all biomass to hydrogen because of thermodynamic constraints. Nevertheless, the benefit of hydrogen is that it can be produced, both biologically and thermochemically, in more than one way from either organic compounds or water. Research in biological hydrogen production is booming, as reflected by the myriad of recently published reviews on the topic. This overview is written from the perspective of how to transfer as much energy as possible from the feedstock into the gaseous products hydrogen, and to a lesser extent, methane. The status and remaining challenges of all the biological processes are concisely discussed.

Evaluating biochemical methane production from brewer's spent yeast.Anaerobic digestion treatment of brewer's spent yeast (SY) is a viable option for bioenergy capture. The biochemical methane potential (BMP) assay was performed with three different samples (SY1, SY2, and SY3) and SY1 dilutions (75, 50, and 25 % on a v/v basis). Gompertz-equation parameters denoted slow degradability of SY1 with methane production rates of 14.59-4.63 mL/day and lag phases of 10.72-19.7 days. Performance and kinetic parameters were obtained with the Gompertz equation and the first-order hydrolysis model with SY2 and SY3 diluted 25 % and SY1 50 %. A SY2 25 % gave a 17 % of TCOD conversion to methane as well as shorter lag phase (<1 day). Average estimated hydrolysis constant for SY was 0.0141 (±0.003) day(-1), and SY2 25 % was more appropriate for faster methane production. Methane capture and biogas composition were dependent upon the SY source, and co-digestion (or dilution) can be advantageous.

Phosphate recovery from anaerobic digester effluents using CaMg(OH)4.Dolomite lime (DL) (CaMg(OH)4) was used as an economical source of Mg(2+) for the removal and recovery of phosphate from an anaerobic digester effluent of a municipal wastewater treatment plant (MWWTP) wastewater. Batch precipitation results determined that phosphate was effectively reduced from 87 to less than 4mg-P/L when the effluent water was mixed with 0.3g/L of DL. The competitive precipitation mechanisms of different solids in the treatment system consisting of Ca(2+)-Mg(2+)-NH4(+)-PO4(3-)CO3(2-) were determined by comparing model predictions with experimental results. Thermodynamic model calculations indicated that hydroxyapatite (Ca10(PO4)6(OH)2), Ca4H(PO4)3∙3H2O, Ca3(PO4)2(beta), and Ca3(PO4)2(am2) were more stable than struvite (MgNH4PO3∙6H2O) and calcite (CaCO3). However, X-ray diffraction (XRD) analysis determined the formation of struvite and calcite minerals in the treated effluent. Kinetic experimental results showed that most of the phosphate was removed from synthetic effluent containing NH4(+) within 2hr, while only 20% of the PO4(3-) was removed in the absence of NH4(+) after 24hr of treatment. The formation of struvite in the DL-treated effluent was due to the rapid precipitation rate of the mineral. The final pH of the DL-treated effluent significantly influenced the mass ratio of struvite to calcite in the precipitates. Because more calcite was formed when the pH increased from 8.4 to 9.6, a pH range of 8.0-8.5 should be used to produce solid with high PO4(3-) content. This study demonstrated that DL could be used for effective removal of phosphate from the effluent and that resultant precipitates contained high content of phosphate and ammonium.

Evaluation of ammonium adsorption in biochar-fixed beds for treatment of anaerobically digested swine slurry: Experimental optimization and modeling.Fixed-bed column experiments were performed to investigate the effect of influent concentration, flow rate, and adsorbent bed depth on ammonium adsorption from anaerobically digested swine slurry using three types of biochar made from corncobs (MCB), hardwood (WB), and mixed sawdust pellets (MSB). WB performed better than the other two biochar types with a maximum sorption capacity of 67-114mg/g due to its superior surface area and larger pore volume. Ammonium adsorption kinetics and dynamics depended on the influent NH4(+)-N concentration, applied inflow flow rate, and the depth of the fixed bed. Maximum sorption capacities under influent NH4(+)-N concentration of 500mg/L, were identified to be 114.2mg/g, 108.9mg/g, and 24.7mg/g at inflow rate of 15mL/min for WB, MCB, and MSB, respectively. The data shows that using deeper beds and applying lower flow rates could be a better strategy to increase ammonium adsorption in biochar-fixed beds. Moreover, three kinetic models (Thomas, Adams-Bohart (BDST), and Yoon-Nelson) were applied to the experimental data to predict breakthrough curves and determine characteristic adsorption parameters for process design. The applied models fitted data in the order: Thomas (R(2)=0.971)>BDST (R(2)=0.960)>Yoon-Nelson (R(2)=0.940). It was concluded that ammonium adsorption in biochar-fixed beds could be an effective method for routine cyclic treatment of slurry. However, further effluent polishing is required to meet discharge requirements.

Kinetics of batch anaerobic co-digestion of poultry litter and wheat straw including a novel strategy of estimation of endogenous decay and yield coefficients using numerical integration.The kinetics of anaerobic co-digestion of poultry litter and wheat straw has not been widely reported in the literature. Since endogenous decay and yield coefficients are two basic parameters for the design of anaerobic digesters, they are currently estimated only by continues experiments. In this study, numerical integration was employed to develop a novel strategy to estimate endogenous decay and yield coefficients using initial and final liquid data combined with methane volumes produced over time in batch experiments. To verify this method, the kinetics of batch anaerobic co-digestion of poultry litter and wheat straw at different TS and VS levels was investigated, with the corresponding endogenous decay and (non-observed) yield coefficients in the exponential periods determined to be between 0.74 × 10(-3) and 6.1 × 10(-3) d(-1), and between 0.0259 and 0.108 g VSS (g VS)(-1), respectively. A general Gompertz model developed early for bio-product could be used to simulate the methane volume profile in the co-digestion. The same model parameters obtained from the methane model combined with the corresponding yield coefficients could also be used to describe the VSS generation and VS destruction.

Comparison of sidestream treatment technologies: post aerobic digestion and Anammox.Post aerobic digestion (PAD) and anaerobic ammonium oxidation (Anammox) are sidestream treatment technologies which are both excellent options for the reduction of nitrogen recycled back to the liquid stream without the need for supplemental carbon or alkalinity. However, the achievement of this goal is where the similarities between the two technologies end. PAD is an advanced digestion process where aerobic digestion is designed to follow anaerobic digestion. Other benefits of PAD include volatile solids reduction, odor reduction, and struvite formation reduction. Anammox harnesses a specific species of autotrophic bacteria that can help achieve partial nitritation/deammonification. Other benefits of Anammox include lower energy consumption due to requiring less oxygen compared with conventional nitrification. This manuscript describes the unique benefits and challenges of each technology. Example installations are presented with a narrative of how and why the technology was selected. A whole plant simulator is used to compare and contrast the mass balances and net present value costs on an 'apples to apples' basis. The discussion includes descriptions of conditions under which each technology would potentially be the most beneficial and cost-effective against a baseline facility without sidestream treatment.

Improve the Anaerobic Biodegradability by Copretreatment of Thermal Alkali and Steam Explosion of Lignocellulosic Waste.Effective alteration of the recalcitrance properties like crystallization of cellulose, lignin shield, and interlinking of lignocellulosic biomass is an ideal way to utilize the full-scale potential for biofuel production. This study exhibited three different pretreatment effects to enhance the digestibility of corn stover (CS) for methane production. In this context, steam explosion (SE) and thermal potassium hydroxide (KOH-60°C) treated CS produced the maximal methane yield of 217.5 and 243.1 mL/gvs, which were 40.0% and 56.4% more than untreated CS (155.4 mL/gvs), respectively. Copretreatment of thermal potassium hydroxide and steam explosion (CPTPS) treated CS was highly significant among all treatments and improved 88.46% (292.9 mL/gvs) methane yield compared with untreated CS. Besides, CPTPS also achieved the highest biodegradability up to 68.90%. Three kinetic models very well simulated dynamics of methane production yield. Moreover, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), Fourier transform infrared (FTIR), and X-ray diffraction (XRD) analyses declared the most effective changes in physicochemical properties after CPTPS pretreatment. Thus, CPTPS might be a promising approach to deconstructing the recalcitrance of lignocellulosic structure to improve the biodegradability for AD.

Combinational effects of prebiotic oligosaccharides on bifidobacterial growth and host gene expression in a simplified mixed culture model and neonatal mice.It is important to provide formula-fed infants with a bifidobacteria-enriched gut microbiota similar to those of breastfed infants to ensure intestinal health. Prebiotics, such as certain oligosaccharides, are a useful solution to this problem, but the combinational benefits of these oligosaccharides have not been evaluated. This study investigated the benefits of oligosaccharide combinations and screened for an optimal combination of oligosaccharides to promote healthy gut microbiota of formula-fed infants. In vitro and in vivo experiments were performed to assess the bifidogenic effects of lactulose (LAC) alone and LAC combined with raffinose (RAF) and/or galacto-oligosaccharide (GOS), using a mixed culture model and neonatal mice orally administered with these oligosaccharides and Bifidobacterium breve. In the in vitro culture model, the combination of the three oligosaccharides (LAC-RAF-GOS) significantly increased cell numbers of B. breve and Bifidobacterium longum (P<0·05) compared with either LAC alone or the combination of two oligosaccharides, and resulted in the production of SCFA under anaerobic conditions. In the in vivo experiment, the LAC-RAF-GOS combination significantly increased cell numbers of B. breve and Bacteroidetes in the large intestinal content (P<0·05) and increased acetate concentrations in the caecal content and serum of neonatal mice. Genes related to metabolism and immune responses were differentially expressed in the liver and large intestine of mice administered with LAC-RAF-GOS. These results indicate a synergistic effect of the LAC-RAF-GOS combination on the growth of bifidobacteria and reveal possible benefits of this combination to the gut microbiota and health of infants.

Anaerobic digestion of aliphatic polyesters.Anaerobic processes for the treatment of plastic materials waste represent versatile and effective approach in environmental protection and solid waste management. In this work, anaerobic biodegradability of model aliphatic polyesters, poly(L-lactic acid) (PLA), and poly(ɛ-caprolactone) (PCL), in the form of powder and melt-pressed films with varying molar mass, was studied. Biogas production was explored in batch laboratory trials at 55 ± 1°C under a nitrogen atmosphere. The inoculum used was thermophilic digested sludge (total solids concentration of 2.9%) from operating digesters at the Central Waste Water Treatment Plant in Prague, Czech Republic. Methanogenic biodegradation of PCLs typically yielded from 54 to 60% of the theoretical biogas yield. The biodegradability of PLAs achieved from 56 to 84% of the theoretical value. High biogas yield (up to 677 mL/g TS) with high methane content (more than 60%), comparable with conventionally processed materials, confirmed the potential of polyester samples for anaerobic treatment in the case of their exploitation in agriculture or as a packaging material in the food industry.

Structural and functional changes within the gut microbiota and susceptibility to Clostridium difficile infection.Alteration of the gut microbial community structure and function through antibiotic use increases susceptibility to colonization by Clostridium difficile and other enteric pathogens. However, the mechanisms that mediate colonization resistance remain elusive. As the leading definable cause of infectious diarrhea, toxigenic C. difficile represents a burden for patients and health care systems, underscoring the need for better diagnostics and treatment strategies. Next-generation sequence data has increased our understanding of how the gut microbiota is influenced by many factors including diet, disease, aging and drugs. However, a microbial-based biomarker differentiating C. difficile infection from antibiotic-associated diarrhea has not been identified. Metabolomics profiling, which is highly responsive to changes in physiological conditions, have shown promise in differentiating subtle disease phenotypes that exhibit a nearly identical microbiome community structure, suggesting metabolite-based biomarkers may be an ideal diagnostic for identifying patients with CDI. This review focuses on the current understanding of structural and functional changes to the gut microbiota during C. difficile infection obtained from studies assessing the microbiome and metabolome of samples from patients and murine models.

Modeling the performance of an anaerobic baffled reactor with the variation of hydraulic retention time.Anaerobic baffled reactors (ABRs) have been widely used in engineering but very few models have been developed to simulate its performance. Based on the integration of biomass retention and liquid-gas mass transfer of biogas into the biochemical process derived in the International Water Association (IWA) Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 (ADM1), a mathematical model was developed to predict volatile fatty acids (VFAs), chemical oxygen demand (CODCr) and biogas in a 4-compartment ABR operated with variable hydraulic retention time (HRT). The model was calibrated and validated with the experimental data obtained from the reactor when the HRT decreased from 2.0 to 1.0d by stages. It was found that the predicted VFAs, CODCr and biogas agreed well with the experimental data. Consequently, the developed model was a reliable tool to enhance the understanding among the mechanisms of the anaerobic digestion in ABRs, as well as to reactor's designing and operation.

Modelling the anaerobic digestion of solid organic waste - Substrate characterisation method for ADM1 using a combined biochemical and kinetic parameter estimation approach.This work proposes a novel and rigorous substrate characterisation methodology to be used with ADM1 to simulate the anaerobic digestion of solid organic waste. The proposed method uses data from both direct substrate analysis and the methane production from laboratory scale anaerobic digestion experiments and involves assessment of four substrate fractionation models. The models partition the organic matter into a mixture of particulate and soluble fractions with the decision on the most suitable model being made on quality of fit between experimental and simulated data and the uncertainty of the calibrated parameters. The method was tested using samples of domestic green and food waste and using experimental data from both short batch tests and longer semi-continuous trials. The results showed that in general an increased fractionation model complexity led to better fit but with increased uncertainty. When using batch test data the most suitable model for green waste included one particulate and one soluble fraction, whereas for food waste two particulate fractions were needed. With richer semi-continuous datasets, the parameter estimation resulted in less uncertainty therefore allowing the description of the substrate with a more complex model. The resulting substrate characterisations and fractionation models obtained from batch test data, for both waste samples, were used to validate the method using semi-continuous experimental data and showed good prediction of methane production, biogas composition, total and volatile solids, ammonia and alkalinity.

Anaerobic digestion in mesophilic and room temperature conditions: Digestion performance and soil-borne pathogen survival.Tomato plant waste (TPW) was used as the feedstock of a batch anaerobic reactor to evaluate the effect of anaerobic digestion on Ralstonia solanacearum and Phytophthora capsici survival. Batch experiments were carried out for TS (total solid) concentrations of 2%, 4% and 6% respectively, at mesophilic (37±1°C) and room (20-25°C) temperatures. Results showed that higher digestion performance was achieved under mesophilic digestion temperature and lower TS concentration conditions. The biogas production ranged from 71 to 416L/kg VS (volatile solids). The inactivation of anaerobic digestion tended to increase as digestion performance improved. The maximum log copies reduction of R. solanacearum and P. capsici detected by quantitative PCR (polymerase chain reaction) were 3.80 and 4.08 respectively in reactors with 4% TS concentration at mesophilic temperatures. However, both in mesophilic and room temperature conditions, the lowest reduction of R. solanacearum was found in the reactors with 6% TS concentration, which possessed the highest VFA (volatile fatty acid) concentration. These findings indicated that simple accumulation of VFAs failed to restrain R. solanacearum effectively, although the VFAs were considered poisonous. P. capsici was nearly completely dead under all conditions. Based on the digestion performance and the pathogen survival rate, a model was established to evaluate the digestate biosafety.

The bacteriocin bactofencin A subtly modulates gut microbial populations.The diverse and dynamic microbiota of the gastrointestinal tract represents a vast source of bioactive substances. These include bacteriocins, which are antimicrobial peptides with the potential to modulate gut populations to impact positively on human health. Although several gut-derived bacteriocins have been isolated, there remain only a few exceptional studies in which their influence on microbial populations within the gut has been investigated. To facilitate such investigations, in vitro faecal fermentation systems can be used to simulate the anaerobic environment of the colon. In this instance, such a system was employed to explore the impact of bactofencin A, a novel broad spectrum class IId bacteriocin produced by gut isolates of Lactobacillus salivarius, on intestinal populations and overall microbial diversity. The study reveals that, although bactofencin A is a broad spectrum bacteriocin, it has a relatively subtle influence on intestinal communities, with a potentially positive impact on anaerobic populations such as Bacteroides, Clostridium and Bifidibacterium spp. The strategy taken is an important first step in investigating the merits of using bactofencin A to manipulate the gut microbiota in a beneficial way for health.

Fractal-like kinetics of the solid-state anaerobic digestion.Total solid content (TS) negatively impacts the methane production efficiency (MPE) of solid-state anaerobic digestion (SS-AD), to which the classic mass action-based kinetics failed to provide a unified explanation. This study revealed that SS-AD reactions actually follow the fractal-like kinetics in light of the surface reactions in crowded SS-AD environment packed with heterogeneous media. The fractal characteristics of the SS-AD kinetics were found increasingly pronounced as TS increased. This study represents the first attempt to resolve the dilemma in SS-AD kinetics with the application of fractal theory. Employing this new concept allows explaining the reduced MPE at high TS and offers an easy assessment of the fractal characteristics of the SS-AD media.

Modeling of Nitrous Oxide Production from Nitritation Reactors Treating Real Anaerobic Digestion Liquor.In this work, a mathematical model including both ammonium oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and heterotrophic bacteria (HB) is constructed to predict N2O production from the nitritation systems receiving the real anaerobic digestion liquor. This is for the first time that N2O production from such systems was modeled considering both AOB and HB. The model was calibrated and validated using experimental data from both lab- and pilot-scale nitritation reactors. The model predictions matched the dynamic N2O, ammonium, nitrite and chemical oxygen demand data well, supporting the capability of the model. Modeling results indicated that HB are the dominant contributor to N2O production in the above systems with the dissolved oxygen (DO) concentration of 0.5-1.0 mg O2/L, accounting for approximately 75% of N2O production. The modeling results also suggested that the contribution of HB to N2O production decreased with the increasing DO concentrations, from 75% at DO = 0.5 mg O2/L to 25% at DO = 7.0 mg O2/L, with a corresponding increase of the AOB contribution (from 25% to 75%). Similar to HB, the total N2O production rate also decreased dramatically from 0.65 to 0.25 mg N/L/h when DO concentration increased from 0.5 to 7.0 mg O2/L.

Effect of electrode position on azo dye removal in an up-flow hybrid anaerobic digestion reactor with built-in bioelectrochemical system.In this study, two modes of hybrid anaerobic digestion (AD) bioreactor with built-in BESs (electrodes installed in liquid phase (R1) and sludge phase (R2)) were tested for identifying the effect of electrodes position on azo dye wastewater treatment. Alizarin yellow R (AYR) was used as a model dye. Decolorization efficiency of R1 was 90.41 ± 6.20% at influent loading rate of 800 g-AYR/ m(3)·d, which was 39% higher than that of R2. The contribution of bioelectrochemical reduction to AYR decolorization (16.23 ± 1.86% for R1 versus 22.24 ± 2.14% for R2) implied that although azo dye was mainly removed in sludge zone, BES further improved the effluent quality, especially for R1 where electrodes were installed in liquid phase. The microbial communities in the electrode biofilms (dominant by Enterobacter) and sludge (dominant by Enterococcus) were well distinguished in R1, but they were similar in R2. These results suggest that electrodes installed in liquid phase in the anaerobic hybrid system are more efficient than that in sludge phase for azo dye removal, which give great inspirations for the application of AD-BES hybrid process for various refractory wastewaters treatment.

Effect of sodium salt on anaerobic digestion of kitchen waste.The effect of different sodium salt concentration on anaerobic digestion of kitchen waste was investigated. The methane production performance, the corresponding methane production model and sodium salt inhibition model were studied, and the degradation efficiency was analyzed. With the increase of sodium salt concentration, the methane yield and the maximal methane production rate decreased along with the increase of lag phase time. The highest methane yield of 594 mL/g-VSadded (VS: volatile solids) was found with no sodium salt addition while the lowest was obtained with addition of 16 g/L NaCl. The declines of the methane yield were negligible when the sodium salt concentration was below 8 g/L, which corresponded to <10% inhibiting efficiency. In contrast, a sharp decrease of methane yield was observed with addition of >8 g/L NaCl (causing 17-80% inhibition). Five kinds of regression models were developed to describe the sodium salt inhibition efficiency, and the cubic regression model of y = 0.508 + 2.401x - 0.369x(2) + 0.033x(3) showed the best fitting. The volatile fatty acids/ethanol gradually accumulated along with the increase of the sodium salt concentration, and the volatile solid removal efficiency represented a gradual decline accordingly. It is recommended that the sodium salt concentration in the anaerobic digesters should be controlled below 8 g/L in order to avoid intense methane inhibition.

Model-Based Feasibility Assessment of Membrane Biofilm Reactor to Achieve Simultaneous Ammonium, Dissolved Methane, and Sulfide Removal from Anaerobic Digestion Liquor.In this study, the membrane biofilm reactor (MBfR) is proposed to achieve simultaneous removal of ammonium, dissolved methane, and sulfide from main-stream and side-stream anaerobic digestion liquors. To avoid dissolved methane stripping, oxygen is introduced through gas-permeable membranes, which also from the substratum for the growth of a biofilm likely comprising ammonium oxidizing bacteria (AOB), anaerobic ammonium oxidation (Anammox) bacteria, denitrifying anaerobic methane oxidation (DAMO) microorganisms, aerobic methane oxidizing bacteria (MOB), and sulfur oxidizing bacteria (SOB). A mathematical model is developed and applied to assess the feasibility of such a system and the associated microbial community structure under different operational conditions. The simulation studies demonstrate the feasibility of achieving high-level (>97.0%), simultaneous removal of ammonium, dissolved methane, and sulfide in the MBfRs from both main-stream and side-stream anaerobic digestion liquors through adjusting the influent surface loading (or hydraulic retention time (HRT)) and the oxygen surface loading. The optimal HRT was found to be inversely proportional to the corresponding oxygen surface loading. Under the optimal operational conditions, AOB, DAMO bacteria, MOB, and SOB dominate the biofilm of the main-stream MBfR, while AOB, Anammox bacteria, DAMO bacteria, and SOB coexist in the side-stream MBfR to remove ammonium, dissolved methane, and sulfide simultaneously.

From pre-treatment toward inter-treatment. Getting some clues from sewage sludge biomethanation.The conventional application of thermal pretreatment of sewage sludge has been to apply it prior to the anaerobic digestion. In this study, the thermal treatment of the digestate was assessed at lab-scale under several temperature and time conditions. Biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests were set up to evaluate the methane production kinetic by using the Gompertz modified and the first order equation. A full-scale digester evaluation was done by using the ADM1 model under different scenarios and by using the parameters drawn from the BMP tests. The best results were obtained at 180°C and 200°C both at 30min where an improvement of 50% in the methane yield in regards to raw digestate. Full-scale simulations show that a scenario with two anaerobic reactors with thermal inter-treatment would improve the methane production by 45% and 20% compared to conventional anaerobic digestion and pretreatments followed by anaerobic digestion, respectively.

Modelling phosphorus (P), sulfur (S) and iron (Fe) interactions for dynamic simulations of anaerobic digestion processes.This paper proposes a series of extensions to functionally upgrade the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) to allow for plant-wide phosphorus (P) simulation. The close interplay between the P, sulfur (S) and iron (Fe) cycles requires a substantial (and unavoidable) increase in model complexity due to the involved three-phase physico-chemical and biological transformations. The ADM1 version, implemented in the plant-wide context provided by the Benchmark Simulation Model No. 2 (BSM2), is used as the basic platform (A0). Three different model extensions (A1, A2, A3) are implemented, simulated and evaluated. The first extension (A1) considers P transformations by accounting for the kinetic decay of polyphosphates (XPP) and potential uptake of volatile fatty acids (VFA) to produce polyhydroxyalkanoates (XPHA) by phosphorus accumulating organisms (XPAO). Two variant extensions (A2,1/A2,2) describe biological production of sulfides (SIS) by means of sulfate reducing bacteria (XSRB) utilising hydrogen only (autolithotrophically) or hydrogen plus organic acids (heterorganotrophically) as electron sources, respectively. These two approaches also consider a potential hydrogen sulfide ( [Formula: see text] inhibition effect and stripping to the gas phase ( [Formula: see text] ). The third extension (A3) accounts for chemical iron (III) ( [Formula: see text] ) reduction to iron (II) ( [Formula: see text] ) using hydrogen ( [Formula: see text] ) and sulfides (SIS) as electron donors. A set of pre/post interfaces between the Activated Sludge Model No. 2d (ASM2d) and ADM1 are furthermore proposed in order to allow for plant-wide (model-based) analysis and study of the interactions between the water and sludge lines. Simulation (A1 - A3) results show that the ratio between soluble/particulate P compounds strongly depends on the pH and cationic load, which determines the capacity to form (or not) precipitation products. Implementations A1 and A2,1/A2,2 lead to a reduction in the predicted methane/biogas production (and potential energy recovery) compared to reference ADM1 predictions (A0). This reduction is attributed to two factors: (1) loss of electron equivalents due to sulfate [Formula: see text] reduction by XSRB and storage of XPHA by XPAO; and, (2) decrease of acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis due to [Formula: see text] inhibition. Model A3 shows the potential for iron to remove free SIS (and consequently inhibition) and instead promote iron sulfide (XFeS) precipitation. It also reduces the quantities of struvite ( [Formula: see text] ) and calcium phosphate ( [Formula: see text] ) that are formed due to its higher affinity for phosphate anions. This study provides a detailed analysis of the different model assumptions, the effect that operational/design conditions have on the model predictions and the practical implications of the proposed model extensions in view of plant-wide modelling/development of resource recovery strategies.

Effects of pretreatments on thickened waste activated sludge and rice straw co-digestion: Experimental and modeling study.In order to maximize the biogas production from thickened waste activated sludge (TWAS), co-digestion of TWAS and rice straw (RS) was studied and the application of thermal/thermo-alkaline and NaOH/H2O2 to TWAS and RS, respectively, was evaluated. The batch experiments were conducted at three different TWAS/RS (volume basis) ratios of 1:3, 1:1 and 3:1, respectively. Furthermore, the modified Gompertz model was introduced to predict the biogas yield and evaluate the kinetic parameters. The highest biogas production (409.2 L/kg VSadded) was achieved from co-digestion of TWASthermo-alkaline and RSNaOH at mixing ratio of 1:1, which is greater by 42.2% and 5.9% than that of digesting TWASthermo-alkaline, and RSNaOH alone, respectively. The highest VS removal rate was obtained from the co-digestion of TWASthermo-alkaline and RSNaOH at mixing ratio of 1:3, which is greater by 55.8% and 14.0% than those of mono-digestion. The modified Gompertz model (R(2): 0.993-0.998 and 0.993-0.999 for mono- and co-digestions, respectively) showed a good fit to the experimental results and the estimated parameters indicating that the pretreatments and co-digestion of substrates markedly improved the biogas production rate.

Anaerobic co-digestion of commercial food waste and dairy manure: Characterizing biochemical parameters and synergistic effects.Anaerobic digestion of commercial food waste is a promising alternative to landfilling commercial food waste. This study characterized 11 types of commercial food wastes and 12 co-digestion blends. Bio-methane potential, biodegradable fraction, and apparent first-order hydrolysis rate coefficients were reported based upon biochemical methane potential (BMP) assays. Food waste bio-methane potentials ranged from 165 to 496 mL CH4/g VS. Substrates high in lipids or readily degradable carbohydrates showed the highest methane production. Average bio-methane potential observed for co-digested substrates was -5% to +20% that of the bio-methane potential of the individual substrates weighted by VS content. Apparent hydrolysis rate coefficients ranged from 0.19d(-1) to 0.65d(-1). Co-digested substrates showed an accelerated apparent hydrolysis rate relative to the weighted average of individual substrate rates. These results provide a database of key bio-digestion parameters to advance modeling and utilization of commercial food waste in anaerobic digestion.

Modelling anaerobic co-digestion in Benchmark Simulation Model No. 2: Parameter estimation, substrate characterisation and plant-wide integration.Anaerobic co-digestion is an emerging practice at wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) to improve the energy balance and integrate waste management. Modelling of co-digestion in a plant-wide WWTP model is a powerful tool to assess the impact of co-substrate selection and dose strategy on digester performance and plant-wide effects. A feasible procedure to characterise and fractionate co-substrates COD for the Benchmark Simulation Model No. 2 (BSM2) was developed. This procedure is also applicable for the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1). Long chain fatty acid inhibition was included in the ADM1 model to allow for realistic modelling of lipid rich co-substrates. Sensitivity analysis revealed that, apart from the biodegradable fraction of COD, protein and lipid fractions are the most important fractions for methane production and digester stability, with at least two major failure modes identified through principal component analysis (PCA). The model and procedure were tested on bio-methane potential (BMP) tests on three substrates, each rich on carbohydrates, proteins or lipids with good predictive capability in all three cases. This model was then applied to a plant-wide simulation study which confirmed the positive effects of co-digestion on methane production and total operational cost. Simulations also revealed the importance of limiting the protein load to the anaerobic digester to avoid ammonia inhibition in the digester and overloading of the nitrogen removal processes in the water train. In contrast, the digester can treat relatively high loads of lipid rich substrates without prolonged disturbances.

Modeling simultaneous carbon and nitrogen removal (SCNR) in anaerobic/anoxic reactor treating domestic wastewater.This paper presents a mathematical model based on the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) to simulate the effects of nitrate concentration and hydraulic retention time (HRT) on the simultaneous carbon and nitrogen removal (SCNR) in anaerobic/anoxic reactor treating domestic wastewater. The model was calibrated using previously published experimental data obtained from anaerobic batch tests for different COD/ [Formula: see text] ratios. Model simulations were performed to predict the SCNR in a completely mixed reactor (CSTR) operating under mesophilic conditions (35 °C). Six different scenarios were evaluated to investigate the performance of the SCNR based on typical influent characteristics of domestic wastewater. The variables analyzed were chemical oxygen demand (COD) removal, nitrate concentration, methane production, nitrogen gas, volatile fatty acids (VFA) concentration, pH and percentage of COD used by the denitrifying and methanogenic microorganisms. The HRT was decreased stepwise from 15 to 4 h. The results indicate that Scenario (S5) with a COD/ [Formula: see text] ratio equal to 10 and an HRT equal to 15 h ensures the occurrence of the stable SCNR. Furthermore, the accumulation of denitrification intermediates and a significant reduction in the biogas production when the organic matter is limited was verified.

Opportunities and prospects of biorefinery-based valorisation of pulp and paper sludge.The paper and pulp industry is one of the major industries that generate large amount of solid waste with high moisture content. Numerous opportunities exist for valorisation of waste paper sludge, although this review focuses on primary sludge with high cellulose content. The most mature options for paper sludge valorisation are fermentation, anaerobic digestion and pyrolysis. In this review, biochemical and thermal processes are considered individually and also as integrated biorefinery. The objective of integrated biorefinery is to reduce or avoid paper sludge disposal by landfilling, water reclamation and value addition. Assessment of selected processes for biorefinery varies from a detailed analysis of a single process to high level optimisation and integration of the processes, which allow the initial assessment and comparison of technologies. This data can be used to provide key stakeholders with a roadmap of technologies that can generate economic benefits, and reduce carbon wastage and pollution load.

Tetracycline removal and effect on the formation and degradation of extracellular polymeric substances and volatile fatty acids in the process of hydrogen fermentation.Many research indicate antibiotics show adverse effect on methane fermentation, while few research focus on their effect on hydrogen fermentation. The present study aimed to gain insight of the effect of antibiotics on hydrogen fermentation with waste sludge and corn straw as substrate. For this purpose, tetracycline, as a model, was investigated with regard to tetracycline removal, hydrogen production, interaction with extracellular polymeric substances (EPSs) of substrate and volatile fatty acids (VFAs) on concentration and composition. Results show that tetracycline could be removed efficiently by hydrogen fermentation, and relative low-dose tetracycline (200mg/l) exposure affects little on hydrogen production. While tetracycline exposure could change hydrogen fermentation from butyric acid-type to propionic acid-type depending on tetracycline level. Based upon three-dimensional excitation-emission matrix fluorescence spectroscopy and UV-vis tetracycline changed the component and content of EPSs, and static quenching was the main mechanism between EPSs with tetracycline.

Acidification of In-Storage-Psychrophilic-Anaerobic-Digestion (ISPAD) process to reduce ammonia volatilization: Model development and validation.In-Storage-Psychrophilic-Anaerobic-Digestion (ISPAD) is an ambient temperature treatment system for wastewaters stored for over 100days under temperate climates, which produces a nitrogen rich digestate susceptible to ammonia (NH3) volatilization. Present acidification techniques reducing NH3 volatilization are not only expensive and with secondary environmental effects, but do not apply to ISPAD relying on batch-to-batch inoculation. The objectives of this study were to identify and validate sequential organic loading (OL) strategies producing imbalances in acidogen and methanogen growth, acidifying ISPAD content one week before emptying to a pH of 6, while also preserving the inoculation potential. This acidification process is challenging as wastewaters often offer a high buffering capacity and ISPAD operational practices foster low microbial populations. A model simulating the ISPAD pH regime was used to optimize 3 different sequential OLs to decrease the ISPAD pH to 6.0. All 3 strategies were compared in terms of biogas production, volatile fatty acid (VFA) concentration, microbial activity, glucose consumption, and pH decrease. Laboratory validation of the model outputs confirmed that a sequential OL of 13kg glucose/m(3) of ISPAD content over 4days could indeed reduce the pH to 6.0. Such OL competes feasibly with present acidification techniques. Nevertheless, more research is required to explain the 3-day lag between the model results and the experimental data.

Ex vivo pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic relationship of valnemulin against Clostridium perfringens in plasma, the small intestinal and caecal contents of rabbits.The pharmacokinetic (PK) and ex vivo pharmacodynamic (PD) of valnemulin against Clostridium perfringens were investigated in plasma, the small intestinal and caecal contents of rabbits following intravenous (IV) or oral administration at 3 mg/kg bodyweight (BW). The postantibiotic effect (PAE) and postantibiotic sub-MIC effect (PA-SME) of valnemulin against C. perfringens ATCC13124 were also determined. The time-kill curves were established in vitro and ex vivo to evaluate the antibacterial activity of valnemulin against C. perfringens. The elimination half-lives (T1/2λz) of valnemulin in the jejunal fluids (7.82 h) or caecal contents (14.8 h) of rabbits was significantly longer than that in plasma (2.94 h). The MIC values of valnemulin against C. perfringens ATCC13124 were both 0.063 μg/mL in the artificial medium and jejunal fluids. The PAEs of valnemulin against C. perfringens were 2.9 h (1 × MIC) and 5.03 h (4 × MIC), and the PA-SMEs ranged from 7.9 h to 11.1 h. Valnemulin exhibited rapid, time-dependent killing feature, and the ex vivo dose-response profile was closely fitted to sigmoid Emax model (r(2) = 0.9985). The surrogate index of AUC24 h/MIC ratios required to achieve the bactericidal and virtual bacterial elimination effects were 57.5 and 90.1 h, respectively. Accordingly, the calculated daily dosage regimens of valnemulin for the bactericidal activity (1.96 mg/kg) and bacterial elimination (3.08 mg/kg) would be therapeutically effective in rabbits against C. perfringens with MIC ≤0.5 μg/mL.

Bio-energy conversion performance, biodegradability, and kinetic analysis of different fruit residues during discontinuous anaerobic digestion.Huge amounts of fruit residues are produced and abandoned annually. The high moisture and organic contents of these residues makes them a big problem to the environment. Conversely, they are a potential resource to the world. Anaerobic digestion is a good way to utilize these organic wastes. In this study, the biomethane conversion performances of a large number of fruit residues were determined and compared using batch anaerobic digestion, a reliable and easily accessible method. The results showed that some fruit residues containing high contents of lipids and carbohydrates, such as loquat peels and rambutan seeds, were well fit for anaerobic digestion. Contrarily, residues with high lignin content were strongly recommended not to be used as a single substrate for methane production. Multiple linear regression model was adopted to simulate the correlation between the organic component of these fruit residues and their experimental methane yield, through which the experimental methane yield could probably be predicted for any other fruit residues. Four kinetic models were used to predict the batch anaerobic digestion process of different fruit residues. It was shown that the modified Gompertz and Cone models were better fit for the fruit residues compared to the first-order and Fitzhugh models. The first findings of this study could provide useful reference and guidance for future studies regarding the applications and potential utilization of fruit residues.

Physicochemical analysis of initial adhesion and biofilm formation of Methanosarcina barkeri on polymer support material.The retention of selective biofilms of Methanosarcina species within anaerobic digesters could reduce start-up times and enhance the efficiency of the process in treating high-strength domestic sewage. The objective of the study was to examine the effect of the surface characteristics of six common polymer support materials on the initial adhesion of the model methanogen, Methanosarcina barkeri, and to assess the potential of these support materials as selective biofilm carriers. Results from both the initial adhesion tests and extended DLVO (xDLVO) model correlated with each other, with PVC (12% surface coverage/mm(2)), PTFE (6% surface coverage/mm(2)), and PP (6% surface coverage/mm(2)), shown to be the better performing support materials for initial adhesion, as well as subsequent biofilm formation by M. barkeri after 72h. Experimental results of these three support materials showed that the type of material strongly influenced the extent of adhesion from M. barkeri (p<0.0001), and the xDLVO model was able to explain the results in these environmental conditions. Therefore, DLVO physicochemical forces were found to be influential on the initial adhesion of M. barkeri. Scanning electron microscopy suggested that production of extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) from M. barkeri could facilitate further biofilm development. This study highlights the potential of using the xDLVO model to rapidly identify suitable materials for the selective adhesion of M. barkeri, which could be beneficial in both the start-up and long-term phases of anaerobic digestion.

Enhancement of sludge anaerobic biodegradability by combined microwave-H2O2 pretreatment in acidic conditions.The aim of this study was to increase the sludge disintegration and reduce the cost of microwave (MW) pretreatment. Thermodynamic analysis of MW hydrolysis revealed the best fit with a first-order kinetic model at a specific energy of 18,600 kJ/kg total solids (TS). Combining H2O2 with MW resulted in a significant increment in solubilization from 30 to 50 % at 18,600 kJ/kg TS. The pH of H2O2-assisted MW-pretreated sludge (MW + H2O2) was in the alkaline range (pH 9-10), and it made the sludge unfavorable for subsequent anaerobic digestion and inhibits methane production. In order to nullify the alkaline effect caused by the MW + H2O2 combination, the addition of acid was considered for pH adjustment. H2O2-assisted MW-pretreated sludge in acidic conditions (MW + H2O2 + acid) showed a maximum methane production of 323 mL/g volatile solids (VS) than others during anaerobic biodegradability. A cost analysis of this study reveals that MW + H2O2 + acid was the most economical method with a net profit of 59.90 €/t of sludge.

Application of ADM1 for modeling of biogas production from anaerobic digestion of Hydrilla verticillata.The present study focused on the application of anaerobic digestion model no. 1 (ADM1) to simulate biogas production from Hydrilla verticillata. Model simulation was carried out by implementing ADM1 in AQUASIM 2.0 software. Sensitivity analysis was used to select the most sensitive parameters for estimation using the absolute-relative sensitivity function. Among all the kinetic parameters, disintegration constant (kdis), hydrolysis constant of protein (khyd_pr), Monod maximum specific substrate uptake rate (km_aa, km_ac, km_h2) and half-saturation constants (Ks_aa, Ks_ac) affect biogas production significantly, which were optimized by fitting of the model equations to the data obtained from batch experiments. The ADM1 model after parameter estimation was able to well predict the experimental results of daily biogas production and biogas composition. The simulation results of evolution of organic acids, bacteria concentrations and inhibition effects also helped to get insight into the reaction mechanisms.

Artificial neural network based modeling to evaluate methane yield from biogas in a laboratory-scale anaerobic bioreactor.The performance of a laboratory-scale anaerobic bioreactor was investigated in the present study to determine methane (CH4) content in biogas yield from digestion of organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW). OFMSW consists of food waste, vegetable waste and yard trimming. An organic loading between 40 and 120kgVS/m(3) was applied in different runs of the bioreactor. The study was aimed to focus on the effects of various factors, such as pH, moisture content (MC), total volatile solids (TVS), volatile fatty acids (VFAs), and CH4 fraction on biogas production. OFMSW witnessed high CH4 yield as 346.65LCH4/kgVS added. A target of 60-70% of CH4 fraction in biogas was set as an optimized condition. The experimental results were statistically optimized by application of ANN model using free forward back propagation in MATLAB environment.

The mouse gut microbiome revisited: From complex diversity to model ecosystems.Laboratory mice are the most commonly used animal model in translational medical research. In recent years, the impact of the gut microbiota (i.e. communities of microorganisms in the intestine) on host physiology and the onset of diseases, including metabolic and neuronal disorders, cancers, gastrointestinal infections and chronic inflammation, became a focal point of interest. There is abundant evidence that mouse phenotypes in disease models vary greatly between animal facilities or commercial providers, and that this variation is associated with differences in the microbiota. Hence, there is a clear discrepancy between the widespread use of mouse models in research and the patchwork knowledge on the mouse gut microbiome. In the present manuscript, we summarize data pertaining to the diversity and functions of the mouse gut microbiota, review existing work on gnotobiotic mouse models, and discuss challenges and opportunities for current and future research in the field.

Predicting the apparent viscosity and yield stress of digested and secondary sludge mixtures.The legal banning of conventional sludge disposal methods such as landfill has led to a global movement towards achieving a sustainable sludge management strategy. Reusing sludge for energy production (biogas production) through the anaerobic digestion of sludge can provide a sustainable solution. However, for the optimum performance of digesters with minimal use of energy input, operating conditions must be regulated in accordance with the rheological characteristics of the sludge. If it is assumed that only secondary sludge enters the anaerobic digesters, an impact of variations to the solids concentration and volume fraction of each sludge type must be investigated to understand how the apparent viscosity and yield stress of the secondary and digested sludge mixture inside the digesters changes. In this study, five different total solids concentration of secondary and digested sludge were mixed at different digested sludge volume fractions ranging from 0 to 1. It was found that if secondary sludge was mixed with digested sludge at the same total solids concentration, the apparent viscosity and the yield stress of the mixture increased exponentially by increasing the volume fraction of digested sludge. However, if secondary sludge was added to digested sludge with a different solids concentration, the apparent viscosity and yield stress of the resulting mixed sludge was controlled by the concentrated sludge regardless of its type. Semi - empirical correlations were proposed to predict the apparent viscosity and yield stress of the mixed digested and secondary sludge. A master curve was also developed to predict the flow behaviour of sludge mixtures regardless of the total solid concentration and volume fraction of each sludge type within the studied solids concentration range of 1.4 and 7%TS. This model can be used for digesters optimization and design by predicting the rheology of sludge mixture inside digester.

Reuse of microalgae grown in full-scale wastewater treatment ponds: Thermochemical pretreatment and biogas production.This study assessed thermochemical pretreatment of microalgae harvested from a full-scale wastewater treatment pond prior to its anaerobic digestion using acid and alkaline chemical doses combined with thermal pretreatment at 80°C. Results indicated that alkaline and thermal pretreatment contributed mostly to glycoprotein and pectin solubilisation; whilst acid pretreatment solubilised mostly hemicellulose, with lower effectiveness for proteins. Regarding the anaerobic biodegradability, biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests showed that final methane yield was enhanced after almost all pretreatment conditions when compared to non-pretreated microalgae, with the highest increase for thermochemical pretreatment at the lowest dose (0.5%), i.e. 82% and 86% increase for alkaline and acid, respectively. At higher doses, salt toxicity was revealed by K(+) concentrations over 5000mg/L. All BMP data from pretreated biomass was successfully described by the modified Gompertz model and optimal condition (thermochemical 0.5% HCl) showed an increase in final methane yield and the process kinetics.

Recovery of energy and nutrient resources from cattle paunch waste using temperature phased anaerobic digestion.Cattle paunch is comprised of partially digested cattle feed, containing mainly grass and grain and is a major waste produced at cattle slaughterhouses contributing 20-30% of organic matter and 40-50% of P waste produced on-site. In this work, Temperature Phased Anaerobic Digestion (TPAD) and struvite crystallization processes were developed at pilot-scale to recover methane energy and nutrients from paunch solid waste. The TPAD plant achieved a maximum sustainable organic loading rate of 1-1.5kgCODm(-3)day(-1) using a feed solids concentration of approximately 3%; this loading rate was limited by plant engineering and not the biology of the process. Organic solids destruction (60%) and methane production (230LCH4kg(-1) VSfed) achieved in the plant were similar to levels predicted from laboratory biochemical methane potential (BMP) testing. Model based analysis identified no significant difference in batch laboratory parameters vs pilot-scale continuous parameters, and no change in speed or extent of degradation. However the TPAD process did result in a degree of process intensification with a high level of solids destruction at an average treatment time of 21days. Results from the pilot plant show that an integrated process enabled resource recovery at 7.8GJ/dry tonne paunch, 1.8kgP/dry tonne paunch and 1.0kgN/dry tonne paunch.

Assessment and parameter identification of simplified models to describe the kinetics of semi-continuous biomethane production from anaerobic digestion of green and food waste.Biochemical reactions occurring during anaerobic digestion have been modelled using reaction kinetic equations such as first-order, Contois and Monod which are then combined to form mechanistic models. This work considers models which include between one and three biochemical reactions to investigate if the choice of the reaction rate equation, complexity of the model structure as well as the inclusion of inhibition plays a key role in the ability of the model to describe the methane production from the semi-continuous anaerobic digestion of green waste (GW) and food waste (FW). A parameter estimation method was used to investigate the most important phenomena influencing the biogas production process. Experimental data were used to numerically estimate the model parameters and the quality of fit was quantified. Results obtained reveal that the model structure (i.e. number of reactions, inhibition) has a much stronger influence on the quality of fit compared with the choice of kinetic rate equations. In the case of GW there was only a marginal improvement when moving from a one to two reaction model, and none with inclusion of inhibition or three reactions. However, the behaviour of FW digestion was more complex and required either a two or three reaction model with inhibition functions for both ammonia and volatile fatty acids. Parameter values for the best fitting models are given for use by other authors.

A Comparison of the ATP Generating Pathways Used by S. Typhimurium to Fuel Replication within Human and Murine Macrophage and Epithelial Cell Lines.The metabolism of S. Typhimurium within infected host cells plays a fundamental role in virulence since it enables intracellular proliferation and dissemination and affects the innate immune response. An essential requirement for the intracellular replication of S. Typhimurium is the need to regenerate ATP. The metabolic route used to fulfil this requirement is the subject of the present study. For infection models we used human and murine epithelial and macrophage cell lines. The epithelial cell lines were mICc12, a transimmortalised murine colon enterocyte cell line that shows many of the characteristics of a primary epithelial cell line, and HeLa cells. The model macrophage cell lines were THP-1A human monocyte/macrophages and RAW 264.7 murine macrophages. Using a mutational approach combined with an exometabolomic analysis, we showed that neither fermentative metabolism nor anaerobic respiration play major roles in energy generation in any of the cell lines studied. Rather, we identified overflow metabolism to acetate and lactate as the foremost route by which S. Typhimurium fulfils its energy requirements.

A model of a syntrophic relationship between two microbial species in a chemostat including maintenance.Many microbial ecosystems can be seen as microbial 'food chains' where the different reaction steps can be seen as such: the waste products of the organisms at a given reaction step are consumed by organisms at the next reaction step. In the present paper we study a model of a two-step biological reaction with feedback inhibition, which was recently presented as a reduced and simplified version of the anaerobic digestion model ADM1 of the International Water Association (IWA). It is known that in the absence of maintenance (or decay) the microbial 'food chain' is stable. In a previous study, using a purely numerical approach and ADM1 consensus parameter values, it was shown that the model remains stable when decay terms are added. However, the authors could not prove in full generality that it remains true for other parameter values. In this paper we prove that introducing decay in the model preserves stability whatever its parameters values are and for a wide range of kinetics.

Early-branching gut fungi possess a large, comprehensive array of biomass-degrading enzymes.The fungal kingdom is the source of almost all industrial enzymes in use for lignocellulose bioprocessing. We developed a systems-level approach that integrates transcriptomic sequencing, proteomics, phenotype, and biochemical studies of relatively unexplored basal fungi. Anaerobic gut fungi isolated from herbivores produce a large array of biomass-degrading enzymes that synergistically degrade crude, untreated plant biomass and are competitive with optimized commercial preparations from Aspergillus and Trichoderma. Compared to these model platforms, gut fungal enzymes are unbiased in substrate preference due to a wealth of xylan-degrading enzymes. These enzymes are universally catabolite-repressed and are further regulated by a rich landscape of noncoding regulatory RNAs. Additionally, we identified several promising sequence-divergent enzyme candidates for lignocellulosic bioprocessing.

Enhancing post aerobic digestion of full-scale anaerobically digested sludge using free nitrous acid pretreatment.Post aerobic digestion of anaerobically digested sludge (ADS) has been extensively applied to the wastewater treatment plants to enhance sludge reduction. However, the degradation of ADS in the post aerobic digester itself is still limited. In this work, an innovative free nitrous acid (HNO2 or FNA)-based pretreatment approach is proposed to improve full-scale ADS degradation in post aerobic digester. The post aerobic digestion was conducted by using an activated sludge to aerobically digest ADS for 4 days. Degradations of the FNA-treated (treated at 1.0 and 2.0 mg N/L for 24 h) and untreated ADSs were then determined and compared. The ADS was degraded by 26% and 32%, respectively, in the 4-day post aerobic digestion period while being pretreated at 1.0 and 2.0 mg HNO2-N/L. In comparison, only 20% of the untreated ADS was degraded. Economic analysis demonstrated that the implementation of FNA pretreatment can be economically favourable or not depending on the sludge transport and disposal cost.

Determination and Visualization of pH Values in Anaerobic Digestion of Water Hyacinth and Rice Straw Mixtures Using Hyperspectral Imaging with Wavelet Transform Denoising and Variable Selection.Biomass energy represents a huge supplement for meeting current energy demands. A hyperspectral imaging system covering the spectral range of 874-1734 nm was used to determine the pH value of anaerobic digestion liquid produced by water hyacinth and rice straw mixtures used for methane production. Wavelet transform (WT) was used to reduce noises of the spectral data. Successive projections algorithm (SPA), random frog (RF) and variable importance in projection (VIP) were used to select 8, 15 and 20 optimal wavelengths for the pH value prediction, respectively. Partial least squares (PLS) and a back propagation neural network (BPNN) were used to build the calibration models on the full spectra and the optimal wavelengths. As a result, BPNN models performed better than the corresponding PLS models, and SPA-BPNN model gave the best performance with a correlation coefficient of prediction (rp) of 0.911 and root mean square error of prediction (RMSEP) of 0.0516. The results indicated the feasibility of using hyperspectral imaging to determine pH values during anaerobic digestion. Furthermore, a distribution map of the pH values was achieved by applying the SPA-BPNN model. The results in this study would help to develop an on-line monitoring system for biomass energy producing process by hyperspectral imaging.

Anaerobic co-digestion of agro-food waste mixtures in a fed-batch basis.The agro-food industry (including livestock) generates millions of tonnes of waste products. A solution to this sector's waste disposal challenges was explored by a joint treatment model of organic waste products from several industries. An inventory of agro-food industry organic waste streams with high potential for biogas production was carried out in a logistically viable area (Cider Region, Asturias, Spain). Three industries were selected as those with the higher potential for this study: livestock, dairy and beverage. The kinetics of anaerobic degradation and methane production of four mixtures of selected waste streams were investigated. The specific methane production at five different substrate-to-inoculum ratios (0.50, 0.75, 1.00, 1.50 and 2.00) showed a slightly decreasing trend at the higher ratios. Some hints of a synergistic effect have been observed in mixtures with higher content in milled apple waste, while antagonistic symptoms were noted in mixtures mainly composed of dairy wastes. The estimation of fluxes of waste and methane potentials in the Cider Region suggests centralised anaerobic digestion as a sustainable solution for the valorisation of livestock and agro-food wastes generated in this area. Sector-specific waste streams (livestock and agro-food industry) could cover up to 12% of regional total energy demand.

Modelling energy efficiency of an integrated anaerobic digestion and photodegradation of distillery effluent using response surface methodology.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is efficient in organic load removal and bioenergy recovery when applied in treating distillery effluent; however, it is ineffective in colour reduction. In contrast, ultraviolet (UV) photodegradation post-treatment for the AD-treated distillery effluent is effective in colour reduction but has high energy requirement. The effects of operating parameters on bioenergy production and energy demand of photodegradation were modelled using response surface methodology (RSM) with a view of developing a sustainable process in which the biological step could supply energy to the energy-intensive photodegradation step. The organic loading rate (OLRAD) and hydraulic retention time (HRTAD) of the initial biological step were the variables investigated. It was found that the initial biological step removed about 90% of COD and only about 50% colour while photodegradation post-treatment removed 98% of the remaining colour. Maximum bioenergy production of 180.5 kWh/m(3) was achieved. Energy demand of the UV lamp was lowest at low OLRAD irrespective of HRTAD, with values ranging between 87 and 496 kWh/m(3). The bioenergy produced formed 93% of the UV lamp energy demand when the system was operated at OLRAD of 3 kg COD/m(3) d and HRT of 20 days. The presumed carbon dioxide emission reduction when electricity from bioenergy was used to power the UV lamp was 28.8 kg CO2 e/m(3), which could reduce carbon emission by 31% compared to when electricity from the grid was used, leading to environmental conservation.

Anaerobic co-digestion plants for the revaluation of agricultural waste: Sustainable location sites from a GIS analysis.The aim of this study was to establish sustainably feasible areas for the implementation of anaerobic co-digestion plants for agricultural wastes (cattle/swine slurries and cereal crop wastes). The methodology was based on the use of geographic information systems (GIS), the analytic hierarchy process (AHP) and map algebra generated from hedges related to environmental, social and economic constraints. The GIS model obtained was applied to a region of Chile (Bío Bío Region) as a case study showing the energy potential (205 MW-h) of agricultural wastes (swine/cattle manures and cereal crop wastes) and thereby assessing its energy contribution (3.5%) at country level (Chile). From this model, it was possible to spatially identify the influence of each factor (environmental, economic and social) when defining suitable areas for the siting of anaerobic co-digestion plants. In conclusion, GIS-based models establish appropriate areas for the location of anaerobic co-digestion plants in the revaluation of agricultural waste from the production of energy through biogas production.

Electrochemical oxidation of the poultry manure anaerobic digested effluents for enhancing pollutants removal by Chlorella vulgaris.The mechanisms and pseudo-kinetics of the electrochemical oxidation for wastewater treatment and the synergistic effect of combining algal biological treatment were investigated. NaCl, Na2SO4 and HCl were applied to compare the effect of electrolyte species on nutrients removal. NaCl was proved to be more efficient in removing ammonia ([Formula: see text]), total phosphorus (TP), total organic carbon (TOC) and inorganic carbon (IC). [Formula: see text] oxidation by using Ti/Pt-IrO2 electrodes was modelled, which indicates that the [Formula: see text] removal followed the zero-order kinetic with sufficient Cl(-) and the first-order kinetic with insufficient Cl(-), respectively. The feasibility of combining electrochemical oxidation with microalgae cultivation for wastewater treatment was also determined. A 2 h electrochemical pretreatment reduced 57% [Formula: see text], 76% TP, 72% TOC and 77% IC from the digested effluent, which is applied as feedstock for algae cultivation, and resulted in increasing both the biomass production and pollutants removal efficiencies of the algal biological process.

Solid-state anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic biomass: Recent progress and perspectives.Solid-state anaerobic digestion (SS-AD), which has gained popularity in the past decade as an environmentally friendly and cost-effective technology for extracting energy from various types of lignocellulosic biomass, is reviewed in this paper. According to data of biomass and methane yields of lignocellulosic feedstocks, crop residues have the highest methane production potential in the U.S., followed by the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW), forestry waste, and energy crops. Methane yield and process stability of SS-AD can be improved by different strategies, such as co-digestion with other organic wastes, pretreatment of lignocellulosic biomass, and optimization of operating parameters. Different models for SS-AD have been developed, and insights into SS-AD processes have been obtained via microbial community analysis, microscope imaging, and tracer techniques. Future research and development in SS-AD, including feedstock identification and co-digestion, feedstock storage and pretreatment, SS-AD reactor development, digestate treatment, and value-added production, are recommended.

Kinetic study of the anaerobic biodegradation of alkyl polyglucosides and the influence of their structural parameters.This paper reports a study of the anaerobic biodegradation of non-ionic surfactants alkyl polyglucosides applying the method by measurement of the biogas production in digested sludge. Three alkyl polyglucosides with different length alkyl chain and degree of polymerization of the glucose units were tested. The influence of their structural parameters was evaluated, and the characteristics parameters of the anaerobic biodegradation were determined. Results show that alkyl polyglucosides, at the standard initial concentration of 100 mgC L(-1), are not completely biodegradable in anaerobic conditions because they inhibit the biogas production. The alkyl polyglucoside having the shortest alkyl chain showed the fastest biodegradability and reached the higher percentage of final mineralization. The anaerobic process was well adjusted to a pseudo first-order equation using the carbon produced as gas during the test; also, kinetics parameters and a global rate constant for all the involved metabolic process were determined. This modeling is helpful to evaluate the biodegradation or the persistence of alkyl polyglucosides under anaerobic conditions in the environment and in the wastewater treatment.

Predicting compositions of microbial communities from stoichiometric models with applications for the biogas process.Microbial communities are ubiquitous in nature and play a major role in ecology, medicine, and various industrial processes. In this study, we used stoichiometric metabolic modeling to investigate a community of three species, Desulfovibrio vulgaris, Methanococcus maripaludis, and Methanosarcina barkeri, which are involved in acetogenesis and methanogenesis in anaerobic digestion for biogas production.
We first constructed and validated stoichiometric models of the core metabolism of the three species which were then assembled to community models. The community was simulated by applying the previously described concept of balanced growth demanding that all organisms of the community grow with equal specific growth rate. For predicting community compositions, we propose a novel hierarchical optimization approach: first, similar to other studies, a maximization of the specific community growth rate is performed which, however, often leads to a wide range of optimal community compositions. In a secondary optimization, we therefore also demand that all organisms must grow with maximum biomass yield (optimal substrate usage) reducing the range of predicted optimal community compositions. Simulating two-species as well as three-species communities of the three representative organisms, we gained several important insights. First, using our new optimization approach we obtained predictions on optimal community compositions for different substrates which agree well with measured data. Second, we found that the ATP maintenance coefficient influences significantly the predicted community composition, especially for small growth rates. Third, we observed that maximum methane production rates are reached under high-specific community growth rates and if at least one of the organisms converts its substrate(s) with suboptimal biomass yield. On the other hand, the maximum methane yield is obtained at low community growth rates and, again, when one of the organisms converts its substrates suboptimally and thus wastes energy. Finally, simulations in the three-species community clarify exchangeability and essentiality of the methanogens in case of alternative substrate usage and competition scenarios.
In summary, our study presents new methods for stoichiometric modeling of microbial communities in general and provides valuable insights in interdependencies of bacterial species involved in the biogas process.

Anaerobic Digestion of Algae Biomass to Produce Energy during Wastewater Treatment.Water resource recovery facilities (WRRFs) are asked to improve both energy efficiency and nutrient removal efficacy. Integration of algaculture offers several potential synergies that could address these goals, including an opportunity to leverage anaerobic digestion at WRRFs. In this study, bench-scale experiments are used to measure methane yield during co-digestion of Scenedesmus dimorphus or mixed WRRF-grown algae with WRRF biosolids. The results indicate that normalized methane yield decreases with increasing algae content in a manner than can be reasonably well fit using linear regression (R(2) = 67%). It is thus possible to predict methane yield for any mixture of algae and biosolids based on the methane yield of the biosolids alone. Using revised methane yields, the energy return on investment of a typical WRRF increases from 0.53 (without algae) to 0.66 (with algae). Thus, algae-based wastewater treatment may hold promise for improving WRRF energy efficiency without compromising effluent quality.

Polyhydroxyalkanoates in waste activated sludge enhances anaerobic methane production through improving biochemical methane potential instead of hydrolysis rate.Anaerobic sludge digestion is the main technology for sludge reduction and stabilization prior to sludge disposal. Nevertheless, methane production from anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge (WAS) is often restricted by the poor biochemical methane potential and slow hydrolysis rate of WAS. This work systematically investigated the effect of PHA levels of WAS on anaerobic methane production, using both experimental and mathematical modeling approaches. Biochemical methane potential tests showed that methane production increased with increased PHA levels in WAS. Model-based analysis suggested that the PHA-based method enhanced methane production by improving biochemical methane potential of WAS, with the highest enhancement being around 40% (from 192 to 274 L CH4/kg VS added; VS: volatile solid) when the PHA levels increased from 21 to 143 mg/g VS. In contrast, the hydrolysis rate (approximately 0.10 d(-1)) was not significantly affected by the PHA levels. Economic analysis suggested that the PHA-based method could save $1.2/PE/y (PE: population equivalent) in a typical wastewater treatment plant (WWTP). The PHA-based method can be easily integrated into the current WWTP to enhance methane production, thereby providing a strong support to the on-going paradigm shift in wastewater management from pollutant removal to resource recovery.

Long and short term impacts of CuO, Ag and CeO2 nanoparticles on anaerobic digestion of municipal waste activated sludge.In this study, long and short term inhibition impacts of Ag, CuO and CeO2 nanoparticles (NPs) on anaerobic digestion (AD) of waste activated sludge (WAS) were investigated. CuO NPs were detected as the most toxic NPs on AD. As the CuO NP concentration increased from 5 to 1000 mg per gTS, an increase in the inhibition of AD from 5.8 to 84.0% was observed. EC50 values of short and long term inhibitions were calculated as 224.2 mgCuO per gTS and 215.1 mgCuO per gTS, respectively. Ag and CeO2 NPs did not cause drastic impacts on AD as compared to CuO NPs. In the long term test, Ag NPs created 12.1% decrease and CeO2 NPs caused 9.2% increase in the methane production from WAS at the highest dosage. FISH imaging also revealed that the abundance of Archaea in raw WAS was similar in short and long term tests carried out with WAS containing Ag and CeO2 NPs. On the other hand, CuO NPs caused inhibition of Archaea in the long term test. Digestion kinetics of WAS containing Ag, CeO2, CuO NPs were also evaluated with Gompertz, Logistic, Transference and First Order models. The hydrolysis rate constant (kH) for each concentration of Ag and CeO2 NPs and the raw WAS was 0.027745 d(-1) while the kH of WAS containing high concentrations of CuO NPs was found to be 0.001610 d(-1).

Volatile fatty acids (VFAs) production from swine manure through short-term dry anaerobic digestion and its separation from nitrogen and phosphorus resources in the digestate.The sustainability of an agricultural system depends highly upon the recycling of all useful substances from agricultural wastes. This study explored the feasibility of comprehensive utilization of C, N and P resources in swine manure (SM) through short-term dry anaerobic digestion (AD) followed by dry ammonia stripping, aiming at achieving (1) effective total volatile fatty acids (VFAs) production and separation; (2) ammonia recovery from the digestate; and (3) preservation of high P bioavailability in the solid residue for further applications. Specifically, two ammonia stripping strategies were applied and compared in this work: (I) ammonia stripping was directly performed with the digestate from dry AD of SM (i.e. dry ammonia stripping); and (II) wet ammonia stripping was conducted by using the resultant filtrate from solid-liquid separation of the mixture of digestate and added water. Results showed that dry AD of the tested SM at 55 °C, 20% TS and unadjusted initial pH (8.6) for 8 days produced relatively high concentrations of total VFAs (94.4 mg-COD/g-VS) and ammonia-N (20.0 mg/g-VS) with high potentially bioavailable P (10.6 mg/g-TS) remained in the digestate, which was considered optimal in this study. In addition, high ammonia removal efficiencies of 96.2% and 99.7% were achieved through 3 h' dry and wet stripping (at 55 °C and initial pH 11.0), respectively, while the total VFAs concentration in the digestate/filtrate remained favorably unchanged. All experimental data from the two stripping processes well fitted to the pseudo first-order kinetic model (R(2) = 0.9916-0.9997) with comparable theoretical maximum ammonia removal efficiencies (Aeq, >90%) being obtained under the tested dry and wet stripping conditions, implying that the former was more advantageous due to its much higher volumetric total ammonia-N removal rate thus much smaller reactor volume, less energy/chemicals consumption and no foaming problems. After 8 days' dry AD and 3 h' dry ammonia stripping, the separated liquid containing VFAs and the recovered ammonia were both marketable products, and the solid residues with averagely higher C/N ratios of 25.7 than those of raw SM (18.0) meanwhile maintaining a relatively high bioavailable P content of 8.1 mg/g-TS can serve as better feedstock for methane fermentation.

Assessing the treatment of acetaminophen-contaminated brewery wastewater by an anaerobic packed-bed reactor.The treatment of high-strength organic brewery wastewater with added acetaminophen (AAP) by an anaerobic digester was investigated. An anaerobic packed-bed reactor (APBR) was operated as a continuous process with an organic loading rate of 1.5-g COD per litre per day and a hydraulic retention time of three days. The results of steady-state analysis showed that the greatest APBR performances for removing COD and TOC were as high as 98 and 93%, respectively, even though the anaerobic digestibility after adding the different AAP concentrations of 5, 10 and 15 mg L(-1) into brewery wastewater can affect the efficiency of organic matter removal. The average CH4 production decreased from 81 to 72% is counterbalanced by the increased CO2 production from 11 to 20% before and after the injection of AAP, respectively. The empirical kinetic models for substrate utilisation and CH4 production were used to predict that, under unfavourable conditions, the performance of the APBR treatment process is able to remove COD with an efficiency of only 6.8%.

Optimization of methane production in anaerobic co-digestion of poultry litter and wheat straw at different percentages of total solid and volatile solid using a developed response surface model.Poultry litter (PL) can be good feedstock for biogas production using anaerobic digestion. In this study, methane production from batch co-digestion of PL and wheat straw (WS) was investigated for two factors, i.e., total solid (2%, 5%, and 10%) and volatile solid (0, 25, and 50% of WS), constituting a 3 × 3 experimental design. The results showed that the maximum specific methane volume [197 mL (g VS)(‑1)] was achieved at 50% VS from WS at 5% TS level. It was estimated that the inhibitory threshold of free ammonia was about 289 mg L(--1), beyond which reduction of methanogenic activity by at least 54% was observed. The specific methane volume and COD removal can be expressed using two response surface models (R(2) = 0.9570 and 0.9704, respectively). Analysis of variance of the experimental results indicated that the C/N ratio was the most significant factor influencing the specific methane volume and COD removal in the co-digestion of these two materials.

Computational fluid dynamics study on mixing mode and power consumption in anaerobic mono- and co-digestion.Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) was applied to investigate mixing mode and power consumption in anaerobic mono- and co-digestion. Cattle manure (CM) and corn stover (CS) were used as feedstock and stirred tank reactor (STR) was used as digester. Power numbers obtained by the CFD simulation were compared with those from the experimental correlation. Results showed that the standard k-ε model was more appropriate than other turbulence models. A new index, net power production instead of gas production, was proposed to optimize feedstock ratio for anaerobic co-digestion. Results showed that flow field and power consumption were significantly changed in co-digestion of CM and CS compared with those in mono-digestion of either CM or CS. For different mixing modes, the optimum feedstock ratio for co-digestion changed with net power production. The best option of CM/CS ratio for continuous mixing, intermittent mixing I, and intermittent mixing II were 1:1, 1:1 and 1:3, respectively.

Activated sludge mass reduction and biodegradability of the endogenous residues by digestion under different aerobic to anaerobic conditions: Comparison and modeling.This study was performed to identify suitable conditions for the in-situ reduction of excess sludge production by intercalated digesters in recycle-activated sludge (RAS) flow. The objective was to compare and model biological sludge mass reduction and the biodegradation of endogenous residues (XP) by digestion under hypoxic, aerobic, anaerobic, and five intermittent-aeration conditions. A mathematical model based on the heterotrophic endogenous decay constant (bH) and including the biodegradation of XP was used to fit the long-term data from the digesters to identify and estimate the parameters. Both the bH constant (0.02-0.05 d(-1)) and the endogenous residue biodegradation constant (bP, 0.001-0.004 d(-1)) were determined across the different mediums. The digesters with intermittent aeration cycles of 12 h-12 h and 5 min-3 h (ON/OFF) were the fastest, compared to the aerobic reactor. The study provides a basis for rating RAS-digester volumes to avoid the accumulation of XP in aeration tanks.

Evaluation of Biogas Production Performance and Archaeal Microbial Dynamics of Corn Straw during Anaerobic Co-Digestion with Cattle Manure Liquid.The rational utilization of crop straw as a raw material for natural gas production is of economic significance. In order to increase the efficiency of biogas production from agricultural straw, seasonal restrictions must be overcome. Therefore, the potential for biogas production via anaerobic straw digestion was assessed by exposing fresh, silage, and dry yellow corn straw to cow dung liquid extract as a nitrogen source. The characteristics of anaerobic corn straw digestion were comprehensively evaluated by measuring the pH, gas production, chemical oxygen demand, methane production, and volatile fatty acid content, as well as applying a modified Gompertz model and high-throughput sequencing technology to the resident microbial community. The efficiency of biogas production from fresh straw (433.8 ml/g) was higher than that of production from straw silage and dry yellow straw (46.55 ml/g and 68.75 ml/g, respectively). The cumulative biogas production from fresh straw, silage straw, and dry yellow straw was 365 l(-1) g(-1) VS, 322 l(-1) g-1 VS, and 304 l(-1) g(-1) VS, respectively, whereas cumulative methane production was 1,426.33%, 1,351.35%, and 1,286.14%, respectively, and potential biogas production was 470.06 ml(-1) g(-1) VS, 461.73 ml(-1) g(-1) VS, and 451.76 ml(-1) g(-1) VS, respectively. Microbial community analysis showed that the corn straw was mainly metabolized by acetate-utilizing methanogens, with Methanosaeta as the dominant archaeal community. These findings provide important guidance to the biogas industry and farmers with respect to rational and efficient utilization of crop straw resources as material for biogas production.

The strict anaerobic gut microbe Eubacterium hallii transforms the carcinogenic dietary heterocyclic amine 2-amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo[4,5-b]pyridine (PhIP).2-Amino-1-methyl-6-phenylimidazo(4,5-b)pyridine (PhIP) is the most abundant food-derived heterocyclic aromatic amine in well-cooked meats and may contribute to the recognized carcinogenicity of processed meats. In this study, a panel of human gut microbes was tested for their ability to convert PhIP to a conjugate PhIP-M1. Eubacterium hallii was newly identified to catalyse the conversion of PhIP to PhIP-M1 with high efficiency. The reaction was shown to involve the metabolism of glycerol to 3-hydroxypropionaldehyde as a key pathway. The proficiency of E. hallii in transforming PhIP in the presence of a complex intestinal microbiota was confirmed using batch fermentations inoculated with effluents from a continuous intestinal fermentation model mimicking human proximal and distal colon microbiota. In batch fermentations inoculated with proximal colon microbiota, PhIP-M1 transformation corresponded to an up to 300-fold increase of E. hallii. In contrast, PhIP transformation of distal colon microbiota was low but increased by 120-fold after supplementation with E. hallii. These findings indicate for the first time the relevance of the abundant commensal strict anaerobe E. hallii in the transformation of a dietary carcinogen that could contribute to its detoxification in the human colon.

Predictors of Whole-Body Insulin Sensitivity Across Ages and Adiposity in Adult Humans.Numerous factors are purported to influence insulin sensitivity including age, adiposity, mitochondrial function, and physical fitness. Univariate associations cannot address the complexity of insulin resistance or the interrelationship among potential determinants.
The objective of the study was to identify significant independent predictors of insulin sensitivity across a range of age and adiposity in humans.
Peripheral and hepatic insulin sensitivity were measured by two stage hyperinsulinemic-euglycemic clamps in 116 men and women (aged 19-78 y). Insulin-stimulated glucose disposal, the suppression of endogenous glucose production during hyperinsulinemia, and homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance were tested for associations with 11 potential predictors. Abdominal subcutaneous fat, visceral fat (AFVISC), intrahepatic lipid, and intramyocellular lipid (IMCL) were quantified by magnetic resonance imaging and spectroscopy. Skeletal muscle mitochondrial respiratory capacity (state 3), coupling efficiency, and reactive oxygen species production were evaluated from muscle biopsies. Aerobic fitness was measured from whole-body maximum oxygen uptake (VO2 peak), and metabolic flexibility was determined using indirect calorimetry.
Multiple regression analysis revealed that AFVISC (P < .0001) and intrahepatic lipid (P = .002) were independent negative predictors of peripheral insulin sensitivity, whereas VO2 peak (P = .0007) and IMCL (P = .023) were positive predictors. Mitochondrial capacity and efficiency were not independent determinants of peripheral insulin sensitivity. The suppression of endogenous glucose production during hyperinsulinemia model of hepatic insulin sensitivity revealed percentage fat (P < .0001) and AFVISC (P = .001) as significant negative predictors. Modeling homeostatic model assessment of insulin resistance identified AFVISC (P < .0001), VO2 peak (P = .001), and IMCL (P = .01) as independent predictors.
The reduction in insulin sensitivity observed with aging is driven primarily by age-related changes in the content and distribution of adipose tissue and is independent of muscle mitochondrial function or chronological age.

Energy balance, greenhouse gas emissions, and profitability of thermobarical pretreatment of cattle waste in anaerobic digestion.In this study modeled full scale application of thermobarical hydrolysis of less degradable feedstock for biomethanation was assessed in terms of energy balance, greenhouse gas emissions, and economy. Data were provided whether the substitution of maize silage as feedstock for biogas production by pretreated cattle wastes is beneficial in full-scale application or not. A model device for thermobarical treatment has been suggested for and theoretically integrated in a biogas plant. The assessment considered the replacement of maize silage as feedstock with liquid and/or solid cattle waste (feces, litter, and feed residues from animal husbandry of high-performance dairy cattle, dry cows, and heifers). The integration of thermobarical pretreatment is beneficial for raw material with high contents of organic dry matter and ligno-cellulose: Solid cattle waste revealed very short payback times, e.g. 9 months for energy, 3 months for greenhouse gases, and 3 years 3 months for economic amortization, whereas, in contrast, liquid cattle waste did not perform positive replacement effects in this analysis.

Clostridium difficile-mediated effects on human intestinal epithelia: Modelling host-pathogen interactions in a vertical diffusion chamber.Clostridium difficile infection is one of the leading causes of healthcare associated diarrhoea in the developed world. Although the contribution of C. difficile toxins to disease pathogenesis is now well understood, many facets of host-pathogen interactions between the human intestinal epithelia and the C. difficile bacterium that may contribute to asymptomatic carriage and/or clinical disease remain less clear. Herein, we tested the hypothesis that C. difficile strains mediate intestinal epithelial cell (IEC) antimicrobial immunity via toxin dependent and independent means and that the 'anaerobic' environment has a significant impact on bacterial-IEC interactions. Crosstalk between three C. difficile PCR ribotypes (RT) [RT027 (strain R20291), RT012 (strain 630) and RT017 (strains M68 and CF5)] and IEC cell-lines were investigated. All RTs showed significant engagement with human Toll-like receptors (TLR)-5, TLR2-CD14 and TLR2/6 as measured by IL-8 release from TLR-transfected HEK cells. Co-culture studies indicated minimal impact of R20291 and 630 TcdA and TcdB on bacterial adherence to Caco-2 cells. An apical anaerobic environment had a major effect on C. difficile-T84 crosstalk as significantly greater cytokine immunity and trans-epithelial electrical resistance (TEER) dysfunction was recorded when co-cultures were performed in an Ussing chamber system compared to standard 5% CO2 conditions. Overall, this study suggests that anaerobic C. difficile engagement with human IECs is a complex interplay that involves bacterial and toxin-mediated cellular events.

Response of a continuous anaerobic digester to temperature transitions: A critical range for restructuring the microbial community structure and function.Temperature is a crucial factor that significantly influences the microbial activity and so the methanation performance of an anaerobic digestion (AD) process. Therefore, how to control the operating temperature for optimal activity of the microbes involved is a key to stable AD. This study examined the response of a continuous anaerobic reactor to a series of temperature shifts over a wide range of 35-65 °C using a dairy-processing byproduct as model wastewater. During the long-term experiment for approximately 16 months, the reactor was subjected to stepwise temperature increases by 5 °C at a fixed HRT of 15 days. The reactor showed stable performance within the temperature range of 35-45 °C, with the methane production rate and yield being maximum at 45 °C (18% and 26% greater, respectively, than at 35 °C). However, the subsequent increase to 50 °C induced a sudden performance deterioration with a complete cessation of methane recovery, indicating that the temperature range between 45 °C and 50 °C had a critical impact on the transition of the reactor's methanogenic activity from mesophilic to thermophilic. This serious process perturbation was associated with a severe restructuring of the reactor microbial community structure, particularly of methanogens, quantitatively as well as qualitatively. Once restored by interrupted feeding for about two months, the reactor maintained fairly stable performance under thermophilic conditions until it was upset again at 65 °C. Interestingly, in contrast to most previous reports, hydrogenotrophs largely dominated the methanogen community at mesophilic temperatures while acetotrophs emerged as a major group at thermophilic temperature. This implies that the primary methanogenesis route of the reactor shifted from hydrogen- to acetate-utilizing pathways with the temperature shifts from mesophilic to thermophilic temperatures. Our observations suggest that a mesophilic digester may not need to be cooled at up to 45 °C in case of undesired temperature rise, for example, by excessive self-heating, which offers a possibility to reduce operating costs.

A Spatially Continuous Model of Carbohydrate Digestion and Transport Processes in the Colon.A spatially continuous mathematical model of transport processes, anaerobic digestion and microbial complexity as would be expected in the human colon is presented. The model is a system of first-order partial differential equations with context determined number of dependent variables, and stiff, non-linear source terms. Numerical simulation of the model is used to elucidate information about the colon-microbiota complex. It is found that the composition of materials on outflow of the model does not well-describe the composition of material in other model locations, and inferences using outflow data varies according to model reactor representation. Additionally, increased microbial complexity allows the total microbial community to withstand major system perturbations in diet and community structure. However, distribution of strains and functional groups within the microbial community can be modified depending on perturbation length and microbial kinetic parameters. Preliminary model extensions and potential investigative opportunities using the computational model are discussed.

Impact of methionine on a partial-nitritation biofilter.It has been demonstrated that an anaerobic digestion process cannot attain an efficient removal of several amino acids, with methionine being one of the most persistent of these. Thus, the effect that methionine amino acid has over the partial-nitritation process with fixed-biofilm configuration in terms of performance and bacterial community dynamics has been investigated. With respect to the performance with no addition, 100 mg/L methionine loading decreased ammonium oxidation efficiency in 60% and 100% at concentrations of 300 and 500 mg/L methionine, respectively. Bacterial biomass sharply increased by 30, 65, and 230% with the addition of 100, 300, and 500 mg/L methionine, respectively. Bacterial community analysis showed that methionine addition supported the proliferation of a diversity of heterotrophic genera, such as Lysobacter and Micavibrio, and reduced the relative abundance of ammonium oxidizing genus Nitrosomonas. This research shows that the addition of methionine affects the performance of the partial-nitritation process. In this sense, amino acids can pose a threat for the of partial-nitritation process treating anaerobic digester supernatant at full-scale implementation.

Effect of thermal, acid, alkaline and alkaline-peroxide pretreatments on the biochemical methane potential and kinetics of the anaerobic digestion of wheat straw and sugarcane bagasse.The effect of thermal, acid, alkaline and alkaline-peroxide pretreatments on the methane produced by the anaerobic digestion of wheat straw (WS) and sugarcane bagasse (SCB) was studied, using whole slurry and solid fraction. All the pretreatments released formic and acetic acids and phenolic compounds, while 5-hydroxymetilfurfural (HMF) and furfural were generated only by acid pretreatment. A remarkable inhibition was found in most of the whole slurry experiments, except in thermal pretreatment which improved methane production compared to the raw materials (29% for WS and 11% for SCB). The alkaline pretreatment increased biodegradability (around 30%) and methane production rate of the solid fraction of both pretreated substrates. Methane production results were fitted using first order or modified Gompertz equations, or a novel model combining both equations. The model parameters provided information about substrate availability, controlling step and inhibitory effect of compounds generated by each pretreatment.

Electrical resistivity tomography to quantify in situ liquid content in a full-scale dry anaerobic digestion reactor.The electrical resistivity tomography (ERT) method is a non-intrusive method widely used in landfills to detect and locate liquid content. An experimental set-up was performed on a dry batch anaerobic digestion reactor to investigate liquid repartition in process and to map spatial distribution of inoculum. Two array electrodes were used: pole-dipole and gradient arrays. A technical adaptation of ERT method was necessary. Measured resistivity data were inverted and modeled by RES2DINV software to get resistivity sections. Continuous calibration along resistivity section was necessary to understand data involving sampling and physicochemical analysis. Samples were analyzed performing both biochemical methane potential and fiber quantification. Correlations were established between the protocol of reactor preparation, resistivity values, liquid content, methane potential and fiber content representing liquid repartition, high methane potential zones and degradations zones. ERT method showed a strong relevance to monitor and to optimize the dry batch anaerobic digestion process.

Oxygen Affects Gut Bacterial Colonization and Metabolic Activities in a Gnotobiotic Cockroach Model.The gut microbiota of termites and cockroaches represents complex metabolic networks of many diverse microbial populations. The distinct microenvironmental conditions within the gut and possible interactions among the microorganisms make it essential to investigate how far the metabolic properties of pure cultures reflect their activities in their natural environment. We established the cockroach Shelfordella lateralis as a gnotobiotic model and inoculated germfree nymphs with two bacterial strains isolated from the guts of conventional cockroaches. Fluorescence microscopy revealed that both strains specifically colonized the germfree hindgut. In diassociated cockroaches, the facultatively anaerobic strain EbSL (a new species of Enterobacteriaceae) always outnumbered the obligately anaerobic strain FuSL (a close relative of Fusobacterium varium), irrespective of the sequence of inoculation, which showed that precolonization by facultatively anaerobic bacteria does not necessarily favor colonization by obligate anaerobes. Comparison of the fermentation products of the cultures formed in vitro with those accumulated in situ indicated that the gut environment strongly affected the metabolic activities of both strains. The pure cultures formed the typical products of mixed-acid or butyrate fermentation, whereas the guts of gnotobiotic cockroaches accumulated mostly lactate and acetate. Similar shifts toward more-oxidized products were observed when the pure cultures were exposed to oxygen, which corroborated the strong effects of oxygen on the metabolic fluxes previously observed in termite guts. Oxygen microsensor profiles of the guts of germfree, gnotobiotic, and conventional cockroaches indicated that both gut tissue and microbiota contribute to oxygen consumption and suggest that the oxygen status influences the colonization success.

Evaluating Models of Cellulose Degradation by Fibrobacter succinogenes S85.Fibrobacter succinogenes S85 is an anaerobic non-cellulosome utilizing cellulolytic bacterium originally isolated from the cow rumen microbial community. Efforts to elucidate its cellulolytic machinery have resulted in the proposal of numerous models which involve cell-surface attachment via a combination of cellulose-binding fibro-slime proteins and pili, the production of cellulolytic vesicles, and the entry of cellulose fibers into the periplasmic space. Here, we used a combination of RNA-sequencing, proteomics, and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) to further clarify the cellulolytic mechanism of F. succinogenes. Our RNA-sequence analysis shows that genes encoding type II and III secretion systems, fibro-slime proteins, and pili are differentially expressed on cellulose, relative to glucose. A subcellular fractionation of cells grown on cellulose revealed that carbohydrate active enzymes associated with cellulose deconstruction and fibro-slime proteins were greater in the extracellular medium, as compared to the periplasm and outer membrane fractions. TEMs of samples harvested at mid-exponential and stationary phases of growth on cellulose and glucose showed the presence of grooves in the cellulose between the bacterial cells and substrate, suggesting enzymes work extracellularly for cellulose degradation. Membrane vesicles were only observed in stationary phase cultures grown on cellulose. These results provide evidence that F. succinogenes attaches to cellulose fibers using fibro-slime and pili, produces cellulases, such as endoglucanases, that are secreted extracellularly using type II and III secretion systems, and degrades the cellulose into cellodextrins that are then imported back into the periplasm for further digestion by β-glucanases and other cellulases.

Metabolic response to subacute and subchronic iron overload in a rat model.One of the common causes of iron overload is excessive iron intake in cases of iron-poor anemia, where iron saccharate complex (ISC) is routinely used to optimize erythropoiesis. However, non-standardized ISC administration could entail the risk of iron overload. To induce iron overload, Wistar rats were intraperitoneally injected with subacute (0.2 mg kg⁻¹) and subchronic (0.1 mg kg⁻¹) overdoses of ISC for 2 and 4 weeks, respectively. Iron status was displayed by an increase in transferrin saturation (up to 332%) and serum and liver iron burden (up to 19.3 μmol L⁻¹ and 13.2 μmol g⁻¹ wet tissue, respectively) together with a drop in total and unsaturated iron binding capacities "TIBC, UIBC" as surrogate markers of transferrin activity. Iron-induced leukocytosis (up to 140%), along with the decline in serum transferrin markers (up to 43%), respectively, mark positive and negative acute phase reactions. Chemical stress was demonstrated by a significant rise (p > 0.05) in indices of the hemogram (erythrocytes, hemoglobin, hematocrit, leukocytes) and stress metabolites [corticosterone (CORT) and lactate]. Yet, potential causes of the unexpected decline in serum activities of ALT, AST and LDH (p > 0.05) might include decreased hepatocellular enzyme production and/or inhibition or reduction of the enzyme activities. The current findings highlight the toxic role of elevated serum and liver iron in initiating erythropoiesis and acute phase reactions, modifying iron status and animal organ function, changing energy metabolism and bringing about accelerated glycolysis and impaired lactate clearance supposedly by decreasing anaerobic threshold and causing premature entering to the anaerobic system.

Emergent behaviour in a chlorophenol-mineralising three-tiered microbial 'food web'.Anaerobic digestion enables the water industry to treat wastewater as a resource for generating energy and recovering valuable by-products. The complexity of the anaerobic digestion process has motivated the development of complex models. However, this complexity makes it intractable to pin-point stability and emergent behaviour. Here, the widely used Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) has been reduced to its very backbone, a syntrophic two-tiered microbial 'food chain' and a slightly more complex three-tiered microbial 'food web', with their stability analysed as a function of the inflowing substrate concentration and dilution rate. Parameterised for phenol and chlorophenol degradation, steady-states were always stable and non-oscillatory. Low input concentrations of chlorophenol were sufficient to maintain chlorophenol- and phenol-degrading populations but resulted in poor conversion and a hydrogen flux that was too low to sustain hydrogenotrophic methanogens. The addition of hydrogen and phenol boosted the populations of all three organisms, resulting in the counterintuitive phenomena that (i) the phenol degraders were stimulated by adding hydrogen, even though hydrogen inhibits phenol degradation, and (ii) the dechlorinators indirectly benefitted from measures that stimulated their hydrogenotrophic competitors; both phenomena hint at emergent behaviour.

Comparison on batch anaerobic digestion of five different livestock manures and prediction of biochemical methane potential (BMP) using different statistical models.There is a lack of literature reporting the methane potential of several livestock manures under the same anaerobic digestion conditions (same inoculum, temperature, time, and size of the digester). To the best of our knowledge, no previous study has reported biochemical methane potential (BMP) predicting models developed and evaluated by solely using at least five different livestock manure tests results. The goal of this study was to evaluate the BMP of five different livestock manures (dairy manure (DM), horse manure (HM), goat manure (GM), chicken manure (CM) and swine manure (SM)) and to predict the BMP using different statistical models. Nutrients of the digested different manures were also monitored. The BMP tests were conducted under mesophilic temperatures with a manure loading factor of 3.5g volatile solids (VS)/L and a feed to inoculum ratio (F/I) of 0.5. Single variable and multiple variable regression models were developed using manure total carbohydrate (TC), crude protein (CP), total fat (TF), lignin (LIG) and acid detergent fiber (ADF), and measured BMP data. Three different kinetic models (first order kinetic model, modified Gompertz model and Chen and Hashimoto model) were evaluated for BMP predictions. The BMPs of DM, HM, GM, CM and SM were measured to be 204, 155, 159, 259, and 323mL/g VS, respectively and the VS removals were calculated to be 58.6%, 52.9%, 46.4%, 81.4%, 81.4%, respectively. The technical digestion time (T80-90, time required to produce 80-90% of total biogas production) for DM, HM, GM, CM and SM was calculated to be in the ranges of 19-28, 27-37, 31-44, 13-18, 12-17days, respectively. The effluents from the HM showed the lowest nitrogen, phosphorus and potassium concentrations. The effluents from the CM digesters showed highest nitrogen and phosphorus concentrations and digested SM showed highest potassium concentration. Based on the results of the regression analysis, the model using the variable of LIG showed the best (R(2)=0.851, p=0.026) for BMP prediction among the single variable models, and the model including variables of TC and TF showed the best prediction for BMPs (R(2)=0.913, p=0.068-0.075) comparing with other two-variable models, while the model including variables of CP, LIG and ADF performed the best in BMP prediction (R(2)=0.999, p=0.009-0.017) if three-variable models were compared. Among the three kinetic models used, the first order kinetic model fitted the measured BMPs data best (R(2)=0.996-0.998, rRMSE=0.171-0.381) and deviations between measured and the first order kinetic model predicted BMPs were less than 3.0%.

Impacts of inoculum pre-treatments on enzyme activity and biochemical methane potential.Biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests were carried out to investigate the influence of inoculum pre-treatments (filtration and pre-incubation) on methane production from cellulose and wheat straw. First-order model and Monod model were used to evaluate the kinetic constants of the BMP assays. The results demonstrated that fresh inoculum was the best option to perform BMP tests. This was evidenced by highest enzyme activity (0.11 U/mL) and highest methane yields for cellulose (356 NmL CH4/gVS) as well as wheat straw (261 NmL CH4/gVS). Besides, high biodegradability (85.8% for cellulose and 61.3% for wheat straw) was also obtained when the fresh inoculum was used. Moreover, a kinetic evaluation showed that inoculum pre-incubation at 37°C or storage at 4°C introduced a lag-time whereas the effects on hydrolysis rate were less consequent. In summary, pre-treatments affected the enzyme activity of the inoculum, and further on, significantly influenced the methane production and the degradation kinetics of the investigated substrates. It is recommended that filtration of inoculum should be avoided unless in case too large particles therein.

Hydrolysis of synthetic polyesters by Clostridium botulinum esterases.Two novel esterases from the anaerobe Clostridium botulinum ATCC 3502 (Cbotu_EstA and Cbotu_EstB) were expressed in Escherichia coli BL21-Gold(DE3) and were found to hydrolyze the polyester poly(butylene adipate-co-butylene terephthalate) (PBAT). The active site residues (triad Ser, Asp, His) are present in both enzymes at the same location only with some amino acid variations near the active site at the surrounding of aspartate. Yet, Cbotu_EstA showed higher kcat values on para-nitrophenyl butyrate and para-nitrophenyl acetate and was considerably more active (sixfold) on PBAT. The entrance to the active site of the modeled Cbotu_EstB appears more narrowed compared to the crystal structure of Cbotu_EstA and the N-terminus is shorter which could explain its lower activity on PBAT. The Cbotu_EstA crystal structure consists of two regions that may act as movable cap domains and a zinc metal binding site.

Hydrogen production from the dissolution of nano zero valent iron and its effect on anaerobic digestion.Nano zero valent iron (NZVI) has shown inhibition on methanogenesis in anaerobic digestion due to its reductive decomposition of cell membrane. The inhibition was accompanied by the accumulation of hydrogen gas due to rapid NZVI dissolution. It is not clear whether and how rapid hydrogen release from NZVI dissolution directly affects anaerobic digestion. In this study, the hydrogen release kinetics from NZVI (average size = 55 ± 11 nm) dissolution in deionized water under anaerobic conditions was first evaluated. The first-order NZVI dissolution rate constant was 2.62 ± 0.26 h(-1) with its half-life of 0.26 ± 0.03 h. Two sets of anaerobic digestion experiments (i.e., in the presence of glucose or without any substrate but at different anaerobic sludge concentrations) were performed to study the impact of H2 release from rapid NZVI dissolution, in which H2 was generated in a separate water bottle containing NZVI (i.e., ex situ H2 or externally supplied from NZVI dissolution) before hydrogen gas was introduced to anaerobic digestion. The results showed that the H2 partial pressure in the headspace of the digestion bottle reached as high as 0.27 atm due to rapid NZVI dissolution, resulting in temporary inhibition of methane production. Nevertheless, the 5-d cumulative methane volume in the group with ex situ H2 production due to NZVI dissolution was actually higher than that of control, suggesting NZVI inhibition on methanogenesis is solely due to the reductive decomposition of cell membrane after direct contact with NZVI.

Does oxygen limit thermal tolerance in arthropods? A critical review of current evidence.Over the last decade, numerous studies have investigated the role of oxygen in setting thermal tolerance in aquatic animals, and there has been particular focus on arthropods. Arthropods comprise one of the most species-rich taxonomic groups on Earth, and display great diversity in the modes of ventilation, circulation, blood oxygen transport, with representatives living both in water (mainly crustaceans) and on land (mainly insects). The oxygen and capacity limitation of thermal tolerance (OCLTT) hypothesis proposes that the temperature dependent performance curve of animals is shaped by the capacity for oxygen delivery in relation to oxygen demand. If correct, oxygen limitation could provide a mechanistic framework to understand and predict both current and future impacts of rapidly changing climate. In arthropods, most studies testing the OCLTT hypothesis have considered tolerance to thermal extremes. These studies likely operate from the philosophical viewpoint that if the model can predict these critical thermal limits, then it is more likely to also explain loss of performance at less extreme, non-lethal temperatures, for which much less data is available. Nevertheless, the extent to which lethal temperatures are influenced by limitations in oxygen supply remains unresolved. Here we critically evaluate the support and universal applicability for oxygen limitation being involved in lethal temperatures in crustaceans and insects. The relatively few studies investigating the OCLTT hypothesis at low temperature do not support a universal role for oxygen in setting the lower thermal limits in arthropods. With respect to upper thermal limits, the evidence supporting OCLTT is stronger for species relying on underwater gas exchange, while the support for OCLTT in air-breathers is weak. Overall, strongest support was found for increased anaerobic metabolism close to thermal maxima. In contrast, there was only mixed support for the prediction that aerobic scope decreases near critical temperatures, a key feature of the OCLTT hypothesis. In air-breathers, only severe hypoxia (<2 kPa) affected heat tolerance. The discrepancies for heat tolerance between aquatic and terrestrial organisms can to some extent be reconciled by differences in the capacity to increase oxygen transport. As air-breathing arthropods are unlikely to become oxygen limited under normoxia (especially at rest), the oxygen limitation component in OCLTT does not seem to provide sufficient information to explain lethal temperatures. Nevertheless, many animals may simultaneously face hypoxia and thermal extremes and the combination of these potential stressors is particularly relevant for aquatic organisms where hypoxia (and hyperoxia) is more prevalent. In conclusion, whether taxa show oxygen limitation at thermal extremes may be contingent on their capacity to regulate oxygen uptake, which in turn is linked to their respiratory medium (air vs. water). Fruitful directions for future research include testing multiple predictions of OCLTT in the same species. Additionally, we call for greater research efforts towards studying the role of oxygen in thermal limitation of animal performance at less extreme, sub-lethal temperatures, necessitating studies over longer timescales and evaluating whether oxygen becomes limiting for animals to meet energetic demands associated with feeding, digestion and locomotion.

Achieving complete nitrogen removal by coupling nitritation-anammox and methane-dependent denitrification: A model-based study.The discovery of denitrifying anaerobic methane oxidation (DAMO) processes enables the complete nitrogen removal from wastewater by utilizing the methane produced on site from anaerobic digesters. This model-based study investigated the mechanisms and operational window for efficient nitrogen removal by coupling nitritation-anaerobic ammonium oxidation (Anammox) and methane-dependent denitrification in membrane biofilm reactors (MBfRs). A mathematical model was applied to describe the microbial interactions among Anammox bacteria, DAMO archaea, and DAMO bacteria. The model sufficiently described the batch experimental data from an MBfR containing an Anammox-DAMO biofilm with different feeding nitrogen compositions, which confirmed the validity of the model. The effects of process parameters on the system performance and microbial community structure could therefore be reliably evaluated. The impacts of nitritation produced NO2(-)/NH4(+) ratio, methane supply, biofilm thickness and total nitrogen (TN) surface loading were comprehensively investigated with the model. Results showed that the optimum NO2(-)/NH4(+) ratio produced from nitritation for the Anammox-DAMO biofilm system was around 1.0 in order to achieve the maximum TN removal (over 99.0%), independent on TN surface loading. The corresponding optimal methane supply increased while the associated methane utilization efficiency decreased with the increase of TN surface loading. The cooperation between DAMO organisms and Anammox bacteria played the key role in the TN removal. Based on these results, the proof-of-concept feasibility of a single-stage MBfR coupling nitritation-Anammox-DAMO for complete nitrogen removal was also tested through integrating the model with ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) and nitrite-oxidizing bacteria (NOB) processes whilst controlling the dissolved oxygen (DO) concentration in the simulated system. The maximum TN removal was found to be achieved at the bulk DO concentration of around 0.17 g m(-3) under the simulation conditions, with the AOB, Anammox bacteria and DAMO organisms coexisting in the biofilm.

What is the effect of mandatory pasteurisation on the biogas transformation of solid slaughterhouse wastes?The effect of mandatory pasteurisation on Category 3 offals, according to the Animal By-Products Regulation (ABPR 1069/2009/EC), was determined using Biochemical Methane Potential (BMP) assays as well as kinetic and statistical analysis. Pasteurised and unpasteurised offals sampled from cattle, pig and chicken slaughterhouses were characterised and their specific methane yields (SMYs) and their bioavailability was assessed. The resultant SMYs were high (465-650mLCH4gVS(-1)) with no statistically significant increase in methane production identified due to pasteurisation. However, the kinetics of the biogas transformation processes highlighted increased bioavailability of the organics due to pasteurisation. This was brought to light by the change in maximum daily SMY from day 22 to day 1 for the cattle offal (p=0.001), day 17 to day 1 for chicken offal (p=0.025) and an increase of 18.8% in the maximum daily SMY of the pig offal on day 1 (p=0.003). The increased bioavailability of the offals manifested itself in two ways with the determining factor being identified as the physical characteristics of the fats i.e. particle size. Firstly reducing the hydrolytic lag phase for the cattle offal, λ=7.46-1.52days (p=0.013). Secondly, causing increased accumulation of Long Chain Fatty Acids to acute inhibitory levels in the chicken and pig offal indicated by increased lag phases λ=5.05-21.91days (p=0.012), λ=15.54-23.04days (p=0.007) respectively.

Kinetics of biogas production in Anaerobic Filters.This study investigates methane production kinetics from individual volatile fatty acids (VFA) in an Upflow Anaerobic Filter (AF). 1gCOD in the form of acetic (HAc), propionic (HPr) or butyric acid (HBu) was injected into the AF while operating at an organic loading rate (OLRCOD) of 3.5gL(-1)d(-1). A new method is introduced to separate gas production of the baseload from the product formation of VFA degradation after the injection. The lag phase, fractional rate of gas production and half-life has been determined for the methane production of the three VFAs. The half-lives were in the order HAc<HBu<HPr showing a slower gas production from the C3 acid than from the C4 acid. The results can be used for prediction models for on-demand biogas production, a vital approach that provides the transforming energy market with balancing power.

Polymicrobial infection alter inflammatory microRNA in rat salivary glands during periodontal disease.Periodontal disease initiated by subgingival pathogens is linked with diminished secretion of saliva, and implies pathogenic bacteria dissemination to or affects secondary sites such as the salivary glands. MicroRNAs activated in response to bacteria may modulate immune responses against pathogens. Therefore, Sprague-Dawley rats were infected by oral lavage consisting of polymicrobial inocula, namely Porphyromonas gingivalis, Tannerella forsythia, and Treponema denticola, or sham-infected for 12 weeks (n = 6). We quantified inflammatory miRNA expression levels of miRNA-132, miR-146a, and miR-155 at secondary sites to the primary infection of the gingiva, including submandibular salivary glands, lacrimal glands, and pancreas. The presence of bacteria was detected in situ at secondary sites. Infected rat gingiva showed increased relative expression of miR-155. In contrast, miRNA-155 expression was decreased in submandibular salivary glands, along with positive identification of P. gingivalis in 2/6 and T. denticola in 1/6 rat salivary glands. Furthermore, miRNA-132 and miRNA-146a were significantly decreased in the pancreas of infected rats. This study is the first to show primary periodontal infections can alter miRNA profiles in secondary sites such as the salivary gland and pancreas. Whether these alterations contribute to pathologies of salivary glands in Sjögren's syndrome or of pancreas in diabetes warrants further investigation.

Optimization of sugarcane bagasse autohydrolysis for methane production from hemicellulose hydrolyzates in a biorefinery concept.This study aimed to optimize through design of experiments, the process variables (temperature - T, time - t and solid-to-liquid ratio - SLR) for sugarcane bagasse (SB) autohydrolysis (AH) to obtain hemicellulose hydrolyzates (HH) prone to anaerobic digestion (AD) and biochemical methane production (BMP). The results indicated that severe AH conditions, which lead to maximum hemicelluloses dissolution and sugar content in the HH, were not the best for BMP, probably due to the accumulation of toxic/recalcitrant compounds (furans and lignin). Mild AH conditions (170°C, 35min and SLR=0.33) led to the highest BMP (0.79Nm(3)kg TOC(-1)), which was confirmed by the desirability tool. HH produced by AH carried out at the desired condition DC2 (178.6°C, 43.6min and SLR=0.24) showed the lowest accumulation of inhibitory compounds and volatile fatty acids (VFA) and highest BMP (1.56Nm(3)kg TOC(-1)). The modified Gompertz model best fit the experimental data and led to a maximum methane production rate (R) of 2.6mmol CH4d(-1) in the best condition.

Enhancing anaerobic digestion of high-pressure extruded food waste by inoculum optimization.The inoculation for extruded food waste anaerobic digestion (AD) was optimized to improve methane (CH4) yield. The inoculum of acclimated anaerobic sludge resulted in high biodegradability, producing CH4 yields from 580 mLCH4 g(-1)·VSadded to 605 mLCH4 g(-1)·VSadded, with corresponding BDCH4 ranging from 90% to 94%. We also investigated inoculum to substrate ratios (ISRs). With regards to digested slurry as inoculum, we found that a decrease in ISR improved CH4 yield, while a lower ISR prolonged the lag time of the initial AD stage due to lipid inhibition caused by excessive food waste. These results demonstrate that minimal inocula are required to start the AD system for high-pressure extruded food waste because it is easily biodegraded. High ammonia concentration had a negative effect on CH4 production (i.e., when free ammonia nitrogen [FAN] increased from 20 to 30 mg L(-1) to 120-140 mg L(-1), the CH4 yield decreased by 25%), suggesting that FAN was a significant inhibitor in CH4 yield reduction. In terms of CH4 yield and lag time of the AD process, the optimal inoculation of digested slurry for the extruded food waste had an ISR of 0.33 with CH4 yield of 505 mLCH4 g(-1)VSadded, which was 20% higher than what was found for higher ISR controls of 2, 1 and 0.5.

Modeling and Application of a Rapid Fluorescence-Based Assay for Biotoxicity in Anaerobic Digestion.The sensitivity of anaerobic digestion metabolism to a wide range of solutes makes it important to be able to monitor toxicants in the feed to anaerobic digesters to optimize their operation. In this study, a rapid fluorescence measurement technique based on resazurin reduction using a microplate reader was developed and applied for the detection of toxicants and/or inhibitors to digesters. A kinetic model was developed to describe the process of resazurin reduced to resorufin, and eventually to dihydroresorufin under anaerobic conditions. By modeling the assay results of resazurin (0.05, 0.1, 0.2, and 0.4 mM) reduction by a pure facultative anaerobic strain, Enterococcus faecalis, and fresh mixed anaerobic sludge, with or without 10 mg L(-1) spiked pentachlorophenol (PCP), we found it was clear that the pseudo-first-order rate constant for the reduction of resazurin to resorufin, k1, was a good measure of "toxicity". With lower biomass density and the optimal resazurin addition (0.1 mM), the toxicity of 10 mg L(-1) PCP for E. faecalis and fresh anaerobic sludge was detected in 10 min. By using this model, the toxicity differences among seven chlorophenols to E. faecalis and fresh mixed anaerobic sludge were elucidated within 30 min. The toxicity differences determined by this assay were comparable to toxicity sequences of various chlorophenols reported in the literature. These results suggest that the assay developed in this study not only can quickly detect toxicants for anaerobic digestion but also can efficiently detect the toxicity differences among a variety of similar toxicants.

The contribution of aerobic and anaerobic respiration to intestinal colonization and virulence for Salmonella typhimurium in the chicken.The basic mechanism whereby Salmonella serovars colonize the chicken intestine remains poorly understood. Previous studies have indicated that proton-translocating proteins utilizing oxygen as terminal electron acceptor do not appear to be of major importance in the gut of the newly hatched chicken and consequently they would be even less significant during intestinal colonization of more mature chickens where the complex gut microflora would trap most of the oxygen in the lumen. Consequently, alternative electron acceptors may be more significant or, in their absence, substrate-level phosphorylation may also be important to Salmonella serovars in this environment. To investigate this we constructed mutants of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium defective in various aspects of oxidative or substrate-level phosphorylation to assess their role in colonization of the chicken intestine, assessed through faecal shedding, and virulence. Mutations affecting use of oxygen or alternative electron acceptors did not eliminate faecal shedding. By contrast mutations in either pta (phosphotransacetylase) or ackA (acetate kinase) abolished shedding. The pta but not the ackA mutation also abolished systemic virulence for chickens. An additional ldhA (lactate dehydrogenase) mutant also showed poor colonizing ability. We hypothesise that substrate-level phosphorylation may be more important than respiration using oxygen or alternative electron acceptors for colonization of the chicken caeca.

In vitro culture of previously uncultured oral bacterial phylotypes.Around a third of oral bacteria cannot be grown using conventional bacteriological culture media. Community profiling targeting 16S rRNA and shotgun metagenomics methods have proved valuable in revealing the complexity of the oral bacterial community. Studies investigating the role of oral bacteria in health and disease require phenotypic characterizations that are possible only with live cultures. The aim of this study was to develop novel culture media and use an in vitro biofilm model to culture previously uncultured oral bacteria. Subgingival plaque samples collected from subjects with periodontitis were cultured on complex mucin-containing agar plates supplemented with proteose peptone (PPA), beef extract (BEA), or Gelysate (GA) as well as on fastidious anaerobe agar plus 5% horse blood (FAA). In vitro biofilms inoculated with the subgingival plaque samples and proteose peptone broth (PPB) as the growth medium were established using the Calgary biofilm device. Specific PCR primers were designed and validated for the previously uncultivated oral taxa Bacteroidetes bacteria HOT 365 and HOT 281, Lachnospiraceae bacteria HOT 100 and HOT 500, and Clostridiales bacterium HOT 093. All agar media were able to support the growth of 10 reference strains of oral bacteria. One previously uncultivated phylotype, Actinomyces sp. HOT 525, was cultivated on FAA. Of 93 previously uncultivated phylotypes found in the inocula, 26 were detected in in vitro-cultivated biofilms. Lachnospiraceae bacterium HOT 500 was successfully cultured from biofilm material harvested from PPA plates in coculture with Parvimonas micra or Veillonella dispar/parvula after colony hybridization-directed enrichment. The establishment of in vitro biofilms from oral inocula enables the cultivation of previously uncultured oral bacteria and provides source material for isolation in coculture.

Kinetic and thermodynamic control of butyrate conversion in non-defined methanogenic communities.Many anaerobic conversions proceed close to thermodynamic equilibrium and the microbial groups involved need to share their low energy budget to survive at the thermodynamic boundary of life. This study aimed to investigate the kinetic and thermodynamic control mechanisms of the electron transfer during syntrophic butyrate conversion in non-defined methanogenic communities. Despite the rather low energy content of butyrate, results demonstrate unequal energy sharing between the butyrate-utilizing species (17 %), the hydrogenotrophic methanogens (9-10 %), and the acetoclastic methanogens (73-74 %). As a key finding, the energy disproportion resulted in different growth strategies of the syntrophic partners. Compared to the butyrate-utilizing partner, the hydrogenotrophic methanogens compensated their lower biomass yield per mole of electrons transferred with a 2-fold higher biomass-specific electron transfer rate. Apart from these thermodynamic control mechanisms, experiments revealed a ten times lower hydrogen inhibition constant on butyrate conversion than proposed by the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1, suggesting a much stronger inhibitory effect of hydrogen on anaerobic butyrate conversion. At hydrogen partial pressures exceeding 40 Pa and at bicarbonate limited conditions, a shift from methanogenesis to reduced product formation was observed which indicates an important role of the hydrogen partial pressure in redirecting electron fluxes towards reduced products such as butanol. The findings of this study demonstrate that a careful consideration of thermodynamics and kinetics is required to advance our current understanding of flux regulation in energy-limited syntrophic ecosystems.

Co-digestion of Whey with Glycerin in an AnSBBR for Biomethane Production.This study aimed to evaluate the co-digestion of cheese whey and glycerin in an anaerobic sequencing batch biofilm reactor (AnSBBR) with recirculation of the liquid phase applied to biomethane production. The applied volumetric organic load (AVOL) in all conditions was 7.5 kgCOD m(-3) day(-1). The feeding time was equal to half of the cycle time. The best condition for co-digestion was the wastewater with 75 % of cheese whey and 25 % of glycerin (chemical oxygen demand (COD) basis); it achieved a productivity of 101.8 molCH4 m(-3) day(-1) and a yield of 13.3 molCH4 kgCOD(-1) with 89 % of COD removal. This represents an increase of productivity of almost 9 and 30 % when compared to the anaerobic digestion of cheese whey and glycerin alone, respectively. The co-digestion proposed is a promising solution for both pollutants with the advantage of high energy production. A first-order kinetic model was fitted efficiently to the process.

Effects of octahedral molecular sieve on treatment performance, microbial metabolism, and microbial community in expanded granular sludge bed reactor.This study evaluated the effects of synthesized octahedral molecular sieve (OMS-2) nanoparticles on the anaerobic microbial community in a model digester, expanded granular sludge bed (EGSB) reactor. The addition of OMS-2 (0.025 g/L) in the EGSB reactors resulted in an enhanced operational performance, i.e., COD removal and biogas production increased by 4% and 11% respectively, and effluent volatile fatty acid (VFA) decreased by 11% relative to the control group. The Biolog EcoPlate™ test was employed to investigate microbial metabolism in the EGSB reactors. Results showed that OMS-2 not only increased the microbial metabolic level but also significantly changed the community level physiological profiling of the microorganisms. The Illumina MiSeq high-throughput sequencing of 16S rRNA gene indicated OMS-2 enhanced the microbial diversity and altered the community structure. The largest bacterial genus Lactococcus, a lactic acid bacterium, reduced from 29.3% to 20.4% by abundance in the presence of 0.25 g/L OMS-2, which may be conducive to decreasing the VFA production and increasing the microbial diversity. OMS-2 also increased the quantities of acetogenic bacteria and Archaea, and promoted the acetogenesis and methanogenesis. The X-ray photoelectron spectroscopy illustrated that Mn(IV)/Mn(III) with high redox potential in OMS-2 were reduced to Mn(II) in the EGSB reactors; this in turn affected the microbial community.

Comparison of anaerobic digestion characteristics and kinetics of four livestock manures with different substrate concentrations.Anaerobic digestions of pig manure (PM), dairy manure (DM), chicken manure (CM) and rabbit manure (RM) at initial volatile solid loading (VSL) of 8 g VS/L, 16 g VS/L, 32 g VS/L, 64 g VS/L were investigated under mesophilic conditions. The maximum methane yields of 410, 270, 377 and 323 mL CH4/g VSadded for PM, DM, CM and RM were all obtained at initial VSL of 8 g VS/L, respectively. The improvement of substrate concentration to 64 g VS/L not only decreased the methane yield and biodegradability both by 22.4%, 37.3%, 49.1% and 34.6% for PM, DM, CM and RM respectively, but also reduced the methane content in final biogas production. The Cone model (R(2): 0.9910-0.9974) showed a better fit to the experiment data and the calculated parameters indicated that anaerobic digestion of manures at higher loading has longer lag phase and lower hydrolysis rate.

Euler-Lagrange CFD modelling of unconfined gas mixing in anaerobic digestion.A novel Euler-Lagrangian (EL) computational fluid dynamics (CFD) finite volume-based model to simulate the gas mixing of sludge for anaerobic digestion is developed and described. Fluid motion is driven by momentum transfer from bubbles to liquid. Model validation is undertaken by assessing the flow field in a labscale model with particle image velocimetry (PIV). Conclusions are drawn about the upscaling and applicability of the model to full-scale problems, and recommendations are given for optimum application.

Excess sludge and herbaceous plant co-digestion for volatile fatty acids generation improved by protein and cellulose conversion enhancement.Volatile fatty acids (VFA), the substrate for the bio-methane yield, can be generated from excess sludge or herbaceous plant waste during the anaerobic fermentation process. However, due to the high protein content and the low carbon-to-nitrogen (C/N) ratio of excess sludge, the nutrient utilization of excess sludge to generate VFA and bio-methane usually becomes inefficient and uneconomical. In this study, the laboratory findings showed that both the organic conversion and VFA generation from the mixture of excess sludge and herbaceous plant waste (e.g., the tall fescue was used as model), could be significantly enhanced, especially when the C/N ratio was adjusted to 20/1. In order to get more VFA and bio-methane generation, the effects of different thermal pretreatment strategies on the excess sludge and tall fescue co-fermentation were investigated. The study of thermal pretreatment revealed that the maximal VFA generation (585.2 g COD/kg of total solids (TS)) from the mixture of sludge and tall fescue by thermal pretreatment at 100 °C was almost 9.9 and 4.1 times higher than un-pretreated sole sludge and tall fescue, respectively. Then the mechanism of enhanced VFA generation from the mixture by thermal pretreatment was investigated. It was observed that pretreating the mixture of excess sludge and tall fescue at 100 °C caused the greatest hydrolysis and acidification. The produced VFA was applied to generate the bio-methane, and it was showed that the bio-methane produced from the thermal-pretreated (100 °C) mixture was almost 9.6 and 4.9 times as high as un-pretreated sole sludge and tall fescue, respectively. In addition, the detection of enzyme activities showed that the main enzymes related to cellulose, hemicelluloses, lignin degradation, and acid forming were more active when VFA was produced from the thermal-pretreated (100 °C) mixture than other cases. Class Bacteroidia, class β-Proteobateria, α-Proteobateria, and phylum Firmicutes of the reactor with 100 °C pretreated mixture were more active than that of the reactor with un-pretreated sludge.

Rapid estimation of the biochemical methane potential of plant biomasses using Fourier transform mid-infrared photoacoustic spectroscopy.Biochemical methane potential (BMP) is a very important characteristic of a given feedstock for optimisation of its use in biogas production. However, the long digestion time needed to determine BMP is the main limitation for the use of this assay during the operation of anaerobic digesters to produce biogas. Fourier transform mid-infrared photoacoustic spectroscopy (FTIR-PAS) was used to predict the BMP of 87 plant biomasses. The developed calibration model was able to explain 81% of the variance in the measured BMP of a selected test set with a root mean square error (RMSE) of 40NLCH4kg(-1) of volatile solids (VS) and a ratio of performance to deviation (RPD) of 2.38. The interpretation of the regression coefficients used in the calibration revealed a positive correlation of BMP with easily degradable compounds (amorphous cellulose, hemicellulose and aliphatic compounds) and a negative correlation with inhibitors of cellulose hydrolysis (lignin, hemicellulose).

Insights into bread melanoidins: fate in the upper digestive tract and impact on the gut microbiota using in vitro systems.Bread melanoidins are heterogeneous, nitrogen-containing, brown macromolecules generated during the last stages of the Maillard reaction in bread. The aim of this study was to investigate the impact and fate of these bread melanoidins in the human gastrointestinal tract using in vitro systems. Batch systems as well as the TNO gastrointestinal tract were used for studying the digestion of various bread samples. These samples included bread crumb, bread crust and two bread-crust-simulating models: a fiber-free model (gluten, starch and glucose heated together) and its control, free of Maillard reaction products (gluten heated separately than starch and glucose). Furthermore, the impact of these two bread-crust-simulating models on the gut microbiota was assessed using a static anaerobic batch system. Bread melanoidins from bread crust and its model were shown to be partially digested by amylases and proteases, suggesting that these melanoidins have peptidic as well as glycosidic bonds in their skeleton. The impact of bread melanoidins from the bread-crust-simulating models and their digestion products on the gut microbiota revealed an individual-dependent response for most flora except for enterobacteria. This flora decreased by -22%, -48% & -100% depending on the individual. Thus, bread melanoidins seem to exert an anti-inflammatory effect by inhibiting enterobacteria.

[The microbiome of the gut in critically ill patients].The complexity and diversity of the human intestinal microbiome has only recently been characterized. The multiple metabolic and immunologic effects of the bacterial flora have demonstrated the symbiosis between the microbiome and its host. This symbiosis is disturbed in a multitude of diseases, especially in critically ill patients.
A review of the changes in the intestinal microbiome of critically ill patients and the use of probiotics.
Nonsystematic literature search in PubMed on the topics: (1) changes in the intestinal microbiome in critically ill patients, (2) interventions using probiotics in critically ill patients, and (3) use of fecal transplantation in Clostridium difficile colitis.
Trauma, sepsis, systemic inflammatory response syndrome, and other conditions lead to shifts in the composition of the intestinal microbiome, which are correlated with clinical outcome. The most obvious change is a profound loss of obligate anaerobe bacteria, leading also to metabolic changes. Probiotics have been used in several studies and show efficacy in the reduction of infectious complication but not in overall mortality. C. difficile colitis as the model disease for a disturbed microbiome can be treated effectively by transfer of donor feces, which also restores the diversity of the microbiome.
Taking into account the successful intervention of fecal transplantation on the intestinal microbiome, new products developed using the current knowledge of the intestinal microbiome could be more effective.

A new approach to simultaneous ammonium and dissolved methane removal from anaerobic digestion liquor: A model-based investigation of feasibility.The presence of a high level of dissolved methane (e.g., 20-26 g m(-3)) in the anaerobic sludge digestion liquor represents a major challenge to the treatment of this stream, as its emission to the atmosphere contributes significantly to the carbon footprint of wastewater treatment. Here we propose a new approach to simultaneous ammonium and dissolved methane removal from the anaerobic digestion liquor through integrating partial nitritation-Anammox and denitrifying anaerobic methane oxidation (DAMO) processes in a single-stage membrane biofilm reactor (MBfR). In such an MBfR, the anaerobic digestion liquor is provided in the bulk liquid, while oxygen is supplied through gas-permeable membranes to avoid dissolved methane stripping. A previously developed model with appropriate extensions was applied to assess the system performance under different operational conditions and the corresponding microbial interactions. Both influent surface loading (or hydraulic retention time) and oxygen surface loading are found to significantly influence the total nitrogen (TN) and dissolved methane removal, which jointly determine the overall system performance. The counter diffusion and concentration gradients of substrates cause microbial stratification in the biofilm, where ammonia-oxidizing bacteria (AOB) attach close to the membrane surface (biofilm base) where oxygen and ammonium are available, while Anammox and DAMO microorganisms jointly grow in the biofilm layer close to the bulk liquid where methane, ammonium, and nitrite are available with the latter produced by AOB. These results provide first insights and useful information for the design and operation of this new technology for simultaneous ammonium and dissolved methane removal in its potential future applications.

Influent Fractionation for Modeling Continuous Anaerobic Digestion Processes.The first dynamic model developed to describe anaerobic digestion processes dates back to 1969. Since then, considerable improvements in identifying the underlying biochemical processes and associated microorganisms have been achieved. These have led to an increasing complexity of both model structure and the standard set of stoichiometric and kinetic parameters. Literature has always paid attention to kinetic parameter estimation, as this determines model accuracy with respect to predicting the dynamic behavior of biogas systems. As sufficient computing power is easily available nowadays, sophisticated linear and nonlinear parameter estimation techniques are applied to evaluate parameter uncertainty. However, the uncertainty of influent fractionation in these parameter optimization procedures is generally neglected. As anaerobic digestion systems are currently increasingly used to convert a broad variety of organic biomass to methane, the lack of generally accepted guidelines for input characterization adapted to the simulation model's characteristics is a considerable limitation of model application to these substrates. Directly after the introduction of the standardized Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1), several publications pointed out that the model's requirement of a detailed influent characterization can hardly be fulfilled. The main shortcoming of the model application was addressed in the reliable and practical identification of the model's input state variables for particulate and soluble carbohydrates, proteins and lipids, as well as for the inerts. Several authors derived biomass characterization procedures, most of them dedicated to a particular substrate, and some of them being of general nature, but none of these approaches have resulted in a practical standard protocol so far. This review provides an overview of existing approaches that improve substrate influent characterization to be used for state of the art anaerobic digestion models.

Anaerobic Fungi and Their Potential for Biogas Production.Plant biomass is the largest reservoir of environmentally friendly renewable energy on earth. However, the complex and recalcitrant structure of these lignocellulose-rich substrates is a severe limitation for biogas production. Microbial pro-ventricular anaerobic digestion of ruminants can serve as a model for improvement of converting lignocellulosic biomass into energy. Anaerobic fungi are key players in the digestive system of various animals, they produce a plethora of plant carbohydrate hydrolysing enzymes. Combined with the invasive growth of their rhizoid system their contribution to cell wall polysaccharide decomposition may greatly exceed that of bacteria. The cellulolytic arsenal of anaerobic fungi consists of both secreted enzymes, as well as extracellular multi-enzyme complexes called cellulosomes. These complexes are extremely active, can degrade both amorphous and crystalline cellulose and are probably the main reason of cellulolytic efficiency of anaerobic fungi. The synergistic use of mechanical and enzymatic degradation makes anaerobic fungi promising candidates to improve biogas production from recalcitrant biomass. This chapter presents an overview about their biology and their potential for implementation in the biogas process.

Inhibition of the oxygen sensor PHD2 in the liver improves survival in lactic acidosis by activating the Cori cycle.Loss of prolyl hydroxylase 2 (PHD2) activates the hypoxia-inducible factor-dependent hypoxic response, including anaerobic glycolysis, which causes large amounts of lactate to be released from cells into the circulation. We found that Phd2-null mouse embryonic fibroblasts (MEFs) produced more lactate than wild-type MEFs, as expected, whereas systemic inactivation of PHD2 in mice did not cause hyperlacticacidemia. This unexpected observation led us to hypothesize that the hypoxic response activated in the liver enhances the Cori cycle, a lactate-glucose carbon recycling system between muscle and liver, and thereby decreases circulating lactate. Consistent with this hypothesis, blood lactate levels measured after a treadmill or lactate tolerance test were significantly lower in Phd2-liver-specific knockout (Phd2-LKO) mice than in control mice. An in vivo (13)C-labeled lactate incorporation assay revealed that the livers of Phd2-LKO mice produce significantly more glucose derived from (13)C-labeled lactate than control mice, suggesting that blockade of PHD2 in the liver ameliorates lactic acidosis by activating gluconeogenesis from lactate. Phd2-LKO mice were resistant to lactic acidosis induced by injection of a lethal dose of lactate, displaying a significant elongation of survival. Moreover, oral administration of a PHD inhibitor improved survival in an endotoxin shock mice model. These data suggest that PHD2 is a potentially novel drug target for the treatment of lactic acidosis, which is a serious and often fatal complication observed in some critically ill patients.

Effect of moisture on pretreatment efficiency for anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic substrates.The present study evaluates the effect of moisture in low-temperature and ultrasound pretreatment on lignocellulosic substrates anaerobic biodegradability, where brewer's spent grain was used as model substrate. Besides moisture content, low-temperature pretreatment was also evaluated in terms of temperature (60-80°C) and exposure time (12-72 h). Likewise, ultrasonication was also evaluated in terms of specific energy (1000-50,000 kJ kg TS(-1)). In addition, the effect of substrate particle size reduction by milling pretreatment was also considered. The results clearly demonstrated that substrate moisture (total solid concentration) is a significant parameter for pretreatment performance, although it has been rarely considered in pretreatment optimisation. Specifically, moisture optimisation increased the methane yield of brewer's spent grain by 6% for low-temperature pretreatment (60°C), and by 14% for ultrasound pretreatment (1000 kJ kg TS(-1)) towards the control (without pretreatment). In both pretreatments, the experimental optimum total solid concentration was 100 gTS kg(-1). Thus, lowering substrate moisture, a strategy suggested attaining energetic pretreatment feasibility, needs to be analysed as another pretreatment variable since it might have limited correlation. Finally, a preliminary energetic balance of the pretreatments under study showed that the extra methane production could not cover the energetic pretreatment expenses.

Anaerobic digestion of tomato processing waste: Effect of alkaline pretreatment.The objective of the work was to assess the effect of mild alkaline pretreatment on the anaerobic biodegradability of tomato processing waste (TPW). Experiments were carried out in duplicate BMP bottles using a pretreatment contact time of 4 and 24 h and a 1% and 5% NaOH dosage. The cumulative methane production during a 30 d period was recorded and modelled. The alkaline pretreatment did not significantly affect methane production in any of the treatments in comparison to the control. The average methane production for all runs was 320 NmL/gVS. Based on first order kinetic modelling, the alkaline pretreatment was found to slow down the rate of methanogenesis, mainly in the two reactors with the highest NaOH dosage. The biodegradability of the substrates ranged from 0.75 to 0.82 and from 0.66 to 0.72 based on two different approaches.

Optimization of hydrolysis and volatile fatty acids production from sugarcane filter cake: Effects of urea supplementation and sodium hydroxide pretreatment.Different methods for optimization the anaerobic digestion (AD) of sugarcane filter cake (FC) with a special focus on volatile fatty acids (VFA) production were studied. Sodium hydroxide (NaOH) pretreatment at different concentrations was investigated in batch experiments and the cumulative methane yields fitted to a dual-pool two-step model to provide an initial assessment on AD. The effects of nitrogen supplementation in form of urea and NaOH pretreatment for improved VFA production were evaluated in a semi-continuously operated reactor as well. The results indicated that higher NaOH concentrations during pretreatment accelerated the AD process and increased methane production in batch experiments. Nitrogen supplementation resulted in a VFA loss due to methane formation by buffering the pH value at nearly neutral conditions (∼ 6.7). However, the alkaline pretreatment with 6g NaOH/100g FCFM improved both the COD solubilization and the VFA yield by 37%, mainly consisted by n-butyric and acetic acids.

Kinetics of Methane Production from Swine Manure and Buffalo Manure.The degradation kinetics of swine and buffalo manure for methane production was investigated. Six kinetic models were employed to describe the corresponding experimental data. These models were evaluated by two statistical measurements, which were root mean square prediction error (RMSPE) and Akaike's information criterion (AIC). The results showed that the logistic and Fitzhugh models could predict the experimental data very well for the digestion of swine and buffalo manure, respectively. The predicted methane yield potential for swine and buffalo manure was 487.9 and 340.4 mL CH4/g volatile solid (VS), respectively, which was close to experimental values, when the digestion temperature was 36 ± 1 °C in the biochemical methane potential assays. Besides, the rate constant revealed that swine manure had a much faster methane production rate than buffalo manure.

Increased Butyrate Production During Long-Term Fermentation of In Vitro-Digested High Amylose Cornstarch Residues with Human Feces.An in vitro semi-continuous long-term (3 wk) anaerobic incubation system simulating lower gut fermentation was used to determine variability in gut microbial metabolism between 4 predigested high amylose-resistant starch residues (SR): SRV, SRVI, SRVII, and SRGEMS in human fecal samples. Subjects participated twice, 5 mo apart: 30 in Phase I (15 lean, 9 overweight and 6 obese), 29 in Phase II (15 lean, 9 overweight, 5 obese); 13 of 15 lean subjects participated in both phases. Of the 4 SRs, SRV displayed the highest gelatinization temperature, peak temperature, enthalpy changes, and the least digestibility compared with the other SRs. In both phases, compared with blank controls, all SRs increased butyrate ∼2-fold which stabilized at week 2 and only SRV caused greater propionate concentration (∼30%) after 3 wk which might have been partly mediated by its lesser digestibility. Fecal samples from lean and overweight/obese subjects incubated with SRs showed similar short-chain fatty acid production across both time points, which suggests that resistant starch may benefit individuals across BMIs.

Improved ADM1 model for anaerobic digestion process considering physico-chemical reactions.The "Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1" (ADM1) was modified in the study by improving the bio-chemical framework and integrating a more detailed physico-chemical framework. Inorganic carbon and nitrogen balance terms were introduced to resolve the discrepancies in the original bio-chemical framework between the carbon and nitrogen contents in the degraders and substrates. More inorganic components and solids precipitation processes were included in the physico-chemical framework of ADM1. The modified ADM1 was validated with the experimental data and used to investigate the effects of calcium ions, magnesium ions, inorganic phosphorus and inorganic nitrogen on anaerobic digestion in batch reactor. It was found that the entire anaerobic digestion process might exist an optimal initial concentration of inorganic nitrogen for methane gas production in the presence of calcium ions, magnesium ions and inorganic phosphorus.

A combined model for large scale batch culture MFC-digester with various wastewaters through different populations.In this study, a new model of microbial fuel cell (MFC) was obtained for the first time. The modeled MFC was made using a combination of two approaches; the conduction-based method and two-step anaerobic digestion. Performance of the MFC was based on calculations for current evolution and polarization curves with different subsequent variables of the biofilm and anolyte. The model was able to make predictions for performance of the MFC for a simple substrate to more complex ones. The model was successfully validated with a variety of substrates (acetate, glucose and dairy wastewater) and the results were compared with previously published measurements. The model polarization results showed that is able to predict overshoot as a dynamic phenomenon. The ratio of acetoclastic methanogens to electrogens in the biofilm increased from an average value of 0.63×10(-2) to 1.17×10(-2) by increasing external resistance from 50 Ω to 100Ω . The attached to planktonic cells ratio was computed 0.45 for the glucose-fed MFC and for the dairy wastewater-fed MFC at 50 Ω was 8.86 and at 100 Ω was 5.46.

Streptococcus panodentis sp. nov. from the oral cavities of chimpanzees.Three strains TKU9, TKU49 and TKU50(T) , were isolated from the oral cavities of chimpanzees (Pan troglodytes). The isolates were all gram-positive, facultative anaerobic cocci that lacked catalase activity. Analysis of partial 16S rRNA gene sequences showed that the most closely related species was Streptococcus infantis (96.7%). The next most closely related species to the isolates were S. rubneri, S. mitis, S. peroris and S. australis (96.6 to 96.4%). Based on the rpoB and gyrB gene sequences, TKU50(T) was clustered with other member of the mitis group. Enzyme activity and sugar fermentation patterns differentiated this novel bacterium from other members of the mitis group streptococci. The DNA G + C content of strain TKU50(T) was 46.7 mol%, which is the highest reported value for members of the mitis group (40-46 mol%). On the basis of the phenotypic characterization, partial 16S rRNA gene and sequences data for two housekeeping gene (gyrB and rpoB), we propose a novel taxa, S. panodentis for TKU 50(T) (type strain = CM 30579(T)  = DSM 29921(T) ), for these newly described isolates.

Potential of biohydrogen production from organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) using pilot-scale dry anaerobic reactor.A long-term evaluation of a mesophilic up-flow intermittently stirred tank reactor (UISTR) for hydrogen production from the organic fraction of municipal solid waste was investigated. UISTR was operated at five different hydraulic retention times (HRTs) of 10, 7.5, 5, 3 and 2days. This corresponds to organic loading rates (OLRs) of 18.1, 26.2, 41.3, 61.0, and 97.2gCOD/L/day, respectively. The highest volumetric H2 production of 2.20±0.19L/L/d and H2 yield of 2.05±0.33molH2/molCarbohydrate were achieved at HRT of 3days and OLR of 61.0gCOD/L/day. This revealed a higher sCOD/tCOD ratio of 0.46±0.08 and a lower particle size diameter of 307.6μm in the digestate, with a reduction of 72.0%. The maximum carbohydrates, proteins, and lipids conversions amounted to 68.2±13.0%, 37.5±6.7% and 48.6±4.7%, respectively recorded at HRT of 10days and OLR of 18.1gCOD/L/day.

In vitro phenotypic differentiation towards commensal and pathogenic oral biofilms.Commensal oral biofilms, defined by the absence of pathology-related phenotypes, are ubiquitously present. In contrast to pathological biofilms commensal biofilms are rarely studied. Here, the effect of the initial inoculum and subsequent growth conditions on in vitro oral biofilms was studied. Biofilms were inoculated with saliva and grown anaerobically for up to 21 days in McBain medium with or without fetal calf serum (FCS) or sucrose. Pathology-related phenotypes were quantified and the community composition was determined. Biofilms inoculated with pooled saliva or individual inocula were similar. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis allowed differentiation of biofilms grown with sucrose, but not with FCS. Lactate production by biofilms was significantly increased by sucrose and protease activity by FCS. McBain grown biofilms showed low activity for both phenotypes. Three clinically relevant in vitro biofilm models were developed and could be differentiated based on pathology-related phenotypes but not DGGE analysis. These models allow analysis of health-to-disease shifts and the effectiveness of prevention measures.

Potential biodiesel and biogas production from corncob by anaerobic fermentation and black soldier fly.Bioenergy has become attractive as alternatives of gradually exhausted fossil fuel. Obtaining high grade bioenergy from lignocellulose is attractive that can gradually meet the demand. This study reported biogas and biodiesel were produced from corncob by a two-step bioprocess, biogas was produced from corncob by anaerobic fermentation, then biogas residue was converted by black soldier fly larvae, and then biodiesel was produced from larvae grease. 86.70 L biogas was obtained from 400 g corncob with the accumulation of biogas yield of 220.71 mL/g VS(added) by anaerobic digestion. Besides, 3.17 g of biodiesel was produced from grease after inoculating black soldier fly larvae into 400 g biogas residue. Meanwhile, the results showed that the addition of black soldier fly larvae could be effective for the degradation of lignocellulose and the accumulation of grease.

Chlorinated Water Modulates the Development of Colorectal Tumors with Chromosomal Instability and Gut Microbiota in Apc-Deficient Mice.The gastrointestinal tract is continuously exposed to a variety of chemicals and commensal bacteria. Recent studies have shown that changes in gut microbial populations caused by chlorine or other chemicals in the drinking water influence the development of human colorectal cancer, although the mechanism of tumorigenesis in the gut epithelium is obfuscated by the diversity of microflora and complexity of the tumor microenvironment. In this regard, mouse models that recapitulate human colorectal cancer are an invaluable tool. In this study, we used two conditional adenomatous polyposis coli (Apc) knockout mouse models to investigate the effect of chlorinated water on tumorigenesis in the digestive tract. Mice with colon-specific carcinoma--caused by either chromosomal (CDX2P 9.5-NLS Cre;Apc(+/flox), abbreviated to CPC;Apc) or microsatellite (CDX2P9.5-G19Cre;Apc(flox/flox) and CDX2P9.5-G22Cre;Apc(flox/flox)) instability, respectively--were administered chlorinated (10.0 mg/L chlorine) or tap (0.7 mg/L chlorine) water and evaluated for colon polyp formation. In CPC;Apc mice given chlorinated drinking water, tumors tended to develop in the colon, whereas in those that drank tap water, tumors were mostly observed in the small intestine. There was no difference in the rate of tumor formation of CDX2P9.5-G19Cre;Apc(flox/flox) and CDX2P9.5-G22Cre;Apc(flox/flox) mice consuming chlorinated as compared to tap water, suggesting that microsatellite instability in the Apc gene does not significantly affect tumorigenesis. Chlorinated water altered the enteric environment by reducing the fecal populations of the obligatory anaerobes Clostridium perfringens and C. difficile, as well as species belonging to the Atopobium cluster, including Enterobacteriaceae and Staphylococcus sp., which was associated with colon tumorigenesis in CPC;Apc mice. These results suggest that differences in tumorigenesis among CPC;Apc mice consuming chlorinated versus tap water may be due to differences in gastrointestinal commensal populations.

Development and Validation of an in vitro Experimental GastroIntestinal Dialysis Model with Colon Phase to Study the Availability and Colonic Metabolisation of Polyphenolic Compounds.The biological effects of polyphenols depend on their mechanism of action in the body. This is affected by bioconversion by colon microbiota and absorption of colonic metabolites. We developed and validated an in vitro continuous flow dialysis model with colon phase (GastroIntestinal dialysis model with colon phase) to study the gastrointestinal metabolism and absorption of phenolic food constituents. Chlorogenic acid was used as model compound. The physiological conditions during gastrointestinal digestion were mimicked. A continuous flow dialysis system simulated the one-way absorption by passive diffusion from lumen to mucosa. The colon phase was developed using pooled faecal suspensions. Several methodological aspects including implementation of an anaerobic environment, adapted Wilkins Chalgren broth medium, 1.10(8) CFU/mL bacteria suspension as inoculum, pH adaptation to 5.8 and implementation of the dialysis system were conducted. Validation of the GastroIntestinal dialysis model with colon phase system showed a good recovery and precision (CV < 16 %). Availability of chlorogenic acid in the small intestinal phase (37 ± 3 %) of the GastroIntestinal dialysis model with colon phase is comparable with in vivo studies on ileostomy patients. In the colon phase, the human faecal microbiota deconjugated chlorogenic acid to caffeic acid, 3,4-dihydroxyphenyl propionic acid, 4-hydroxybenzoic acid, 3- or 4-hydroxyphenyl acetic acid, 2-methoxy-4-methylphenol and 3-phenylpropionic acid. The GastroIntestinal dialysis model with colon phase is a new, reliable gastrointestinal simulation system. It permits a fast and easy way to predict the availability of complex secondary metabolites, and to detect metabolites in an early stage after digestion. Isolation and identification of these metabolites may be used as references for in vivo bioavailability experiments and for investigating their bioactivity in in vitro experiments.

Modeling of Anaerobic Digestion with a Focus on Estimation of Hydrolysis Constants at 35, 55, and 60 °C.Hydrolysis constants of mixed sludge at 35, 55, and 60 °C were found to be 0.32, 0.44, and 0.50 1/d, respectively, in pilot-scale, semicontinuously operated anaerobic digesters. The hydrolysis constants and estimated chemical oxygen demand fractions in the feed were introduced to a mathematical model for anaerobic digestion published by Siegrist et al. (2002), which is similar to Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1. First-order and Monod-type kinetics were tested for estimation of hydrolysis constants. The applied kinetics were found to affect the outcome of the regression study. Moreover, the free ammonia inhibition model was excluded for both propionate oxidation and acetate conversion, thanks to the apparent acclimatized biomass. No substantial accumulation of volatile fatty acids was observed in the reactors at 35, 55, and 60 °C, corresponding to free ammonia nitrogen concentrations of about 20, 110, and 130 g N/m³, respectively.

Microbial Internal Storage Alters the Carbon Transformation in Dynamic Anaerobic Fermentation.Microbial internal storage processes have been demonstrated to occur and play an important role in activated sludge systems under both aerobic and anoxic conditions when operating under dynamic conditions. High-rate anaerobic reactors are often operated at a high volumetric organic loading and a relatively dynamic profile, with large amounts of fermentable substrates. These dynamic operating conditions and high catabolic energy availability might also facilitate the formation of internal storage polymers by anaerobic microorganisms. However, so far information about storage under anaerobic conditions (e.g., anaerobic fermentation) as well as its consideration in anaerobic process modeling (e.g., IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1, ADM1) is still sparse. In this work, the accumulation of storage polymers during anaerobic fermentation was evaluated by batch experiments using anaerobic methanogenic sludge and based on mass balance analysis of carbon transformation. A new mathematical model was developed to describe microbial storage in anaerobic systems. The model was calibrated and validated by using independent data sets from two different anaerobic systems, with significant storage observed, and effectively simulated in both systems. The inclusion of the new anaerobic storage processes in the developed model allows for more successful simulation of transients due to lower accumulation of volatile fatty acids (correction for the overestimation of volatile fatty acids), which mitigates pH fluctuations. Current models such as the ADM1 cannot effectively simulate these dynamics due to a lack of anaerobic storage mechanisms.

In vitro characterisation of the fermentation profile and prebiotic capacity of gold-fleshed kiwifruit.A new Actinidia chinensis gold-fleshed kiwifruit cultivar 'Zesy002' was tested to investigate whether it could positively modulate the composition of the human colonic microbiota. Digested Zesy002 kiwifruit was added to in vitro pH-controlled anaerobic batch fermenters that were inoculated with representative human faecal microbiota. Alterations to the gut microbial ecology were determined by 16S rRNA gene sequencing and metabolic end products were measured using gas chromatography and liquid chromatography - mass spectrometry. Results indicated a substantial shift in the composition of bacteria within the gut models caused by kiwifruit supplementation. Zesy002 supplemented microbiota had a significantly higher abundance of Bacteroides spp., Parabacteroides spp. and Bifidobacterium spp. after 48 h of fermentation compared with the start of the fermentation. Organic acids from kiwifruit were able to endure simulated gastrointestinal digestion and were detectable in the first 10 h of fermentation. The fermentable carbohydrates were converted to beneficial organic acids with a particular predilection for propionate production, corresponding with the rise in Bacteroides spp. and Parabacteroides spp. These results support the claim that Zesy002 kiwifruit non-digestible fractions can effect favourable changes to the human colonic microbial community and primary metabolites, and demonstrate a hitherto unknown effect of Zesy002 on colonic microbiota under in vitro conditions.

Anaerobic digestion of wastewater from the fruit juice industry: experiments and modeling.Anaerobic digestion of wastewater from the fruit juice industry was carried out in a batch digester. To study the effect of the pH values as well as the nutrient medium on the fermentation process, different parameters were monitored under mesophilic temperature, such as cumulative biogas volume, chemical oxygen demand (COD), total sugar, and biomass growth. It was found that for all cases, the COD concentration decreased with time. The lowest value reached was obtained when the nutrient medium was added; it was about 110 g/L after 480 h. In such cases, the COD removal reached about 80%; the highest cumulative biogas volume of about 5,515.8 NmL was reached after 480 h testing; and the lowest value reached was about 2,862.3 NmL in the case of peach-substrate containing sodium sulfite. The addition of nutrient medium improved the cumulative biogas production as well as the COD abatement. Measurement of the biogas composition highlighted three gaseous components, namely, methane (56.52%), carbon dioxide (20.14%), and hydrogen sulfide (23.34%). The modified Gompertz equation and the first-order kinetic model were used to describe the cumulative biogas production and the organic matter removal, respectively. A good agreement was found between simulated and experimental data.

Performance of mesophilic biohydrogen-producing cultures at thermophilic conditions.In this study, batch tests were conducted to investigate the performance of mesophilic anaerobic digester sludge (ADS) at thermophilic conditions and estimate kinetic parameters for co-substrate fermentation. Starch and cellulose were used as mono-substrate and in combination as co-substrates (1:1 mass ratio) to conduct a comparative assessment between mesophilic (37 °C) and thermophilic (60 °C) biohydrogen production. Unacclimatized mesophilic ADS responded well to the temperature change. The highest hydrogen yield of 1.13 mol H2/mol hexose was observed in starch-only batches at thermophilic conditions. The thermophilic cellulose-only yield (0.42 mol H2/mol hexose) was three times the mesophilic yield (0.13 mol H2/mol hexose). Interestingly, co-fermentation of starch-cellulose at mesophilic conditions enhanced the hydrogen yield by 26% with respect to estimated mono-substrate yields, while under thermophilic conditions no enhancement in the overall yield was observed. Interestingly, the estimated overall Monod kinetic parameters showed higher rates at mesophilic than thermophilic conditions.

Quantifying physical structure changes and non-uniform water flow in cattle manure during dry anaerobic digestion process at lab scale: Implication for biogas production.The aim of this study was to investigate and quantify non-uniform water flow during dry AD and its implication for biogas production. Laboratory tracer experiments were performed on cattle manure over the course of AD. The evolution of the permeability, the dry bulk density, the dry porosity, the total and volatile solid contents of cattle manure at different stages of AD, revealed waste structure changes, impacting water flow and methane production. Tracer experiments and numerical modeling performed by using a physical non-equilibrium model indicated non-uniform preferential flow patterns during degradation. According to literature, the increase of inoculum recirculation frequency improved methane production rate. However, these results demonstrated that this improvement occurs only at the beginning of manure degradation. After 19 days of degradation the inoculum recirculation and the flow patterns modification had no effect on methane production rate.

Impact of human milk bacteria and oligosaccharides on neonatal gut microbiota establishment and gut health.Neonatal gut microbiota establishment represents a crucial stage for gut maturation, metabolic and immunologic programming, and consequently short- and long-term health status. Human milk beneficially influences this process due to its dynamic profile of age-adapted nutrients and bioactive components and by providing commensal maternal bacteria to the neonatal gut. These include Lactobacillus spp., as well as obligate anaerobes such as Bifidobacterium spp., which may originate from the maternal gut via an enteromammary pathway as a novel form of mother-neonate communication. Additionally, human milk harbors a broad range of oligosaccharides that promote the growth and activity of specific bacterial populations, in particular, Bifidobacterium and Bacteroides spp. This review focuses on the diversity and origin of human milk bacteria, as well as on milk oligosaccharides that influence neonatal gut microbiota establishment. This knowledge can be used to develop infant formulae that more closely mimic nature's model and sustain a healthy gut microbiota.

GC/MS method for determining carbon isotope enrichment and concentration of underivatized short-chain fatty acids by direct aqueous solution injection of biogas digester samples.In anaerobic digestion of organic matter, several metabolic pathways are involved during the simultaneous production and consumption of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) in general and acetate in particular. Understanding the role of each pathway requires both the determination of the concentration and isotope enrichment of intermediates in conjunction with isotope labeled substrates. The objective of this study was to establish a rapid and simple GC/MS method for determining the isotope enrichment of acetate and concentration of underivatized short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) in biogas digester samples by direct liquid injection of acidified aqueous samples. Sample preparation involves only acidification, centrifugation and filtration of the aqueous solution followed by direct injection of the aqueous supernatant solution onto a polar column. With the sample preparation and GC/MS conditions employed, well-resolved and sharp peaks of underivatized SCFA were obtained in a reasonably short time. Good recovery (96.6-102.3%) as well as low detection (4-7 µmol/L) and quantification limits (14-22 µmol/L) were obtained for all the 6 SCFA studied. Good linearity was achieved for both concentration and isotope enrichment measurement with regression coefficients higher than 0.9978 and 0.9996, respectively. The method has a good intra- and inter-day precision with a relative standard deviation (RSD) below 6% for determining the tracer-to-tracee ratio (TTR) of both [2-(13)C]acetate and [U-(13)C]acetate. It has also a good intra- and inter-day precision with a RSD below 6% and 5% for determining the concentration of standard solution and biogas digester samples, respectively. Acidification of biogas digester samples with oxalic acid provided the low pH required for the protonation of SCFA and thus, allows the extraction of SCFA from the complex sample matrix. Moreover, oxalic acid was the source of formic acid which was produced in the injector set at high temperature. The produced formic acid prevented the adsorption of SCFA in the column, thereby eliminating peak tailing and ghost peaks. The applicability of the validated GC/MS method for determining the concentration of acetate and its (13)C isotope enrichment in anaerobic digester samples was tested and the results demonstrated the suitability of this method for identifying the metabolic pathways involved in degradation and production of acetate.

Activation of HIF-1α and LL-37 by commensal bacteria inhibits Candida albicans colonization.Candida albicans colonization is required for invasive disease. Unlike humans, adult mice with mature intact gut microbiota are resistant to C. albicans gastrointestinal (GI) colonization, but the factors that promote C. albicans colonization resistance are unknown. Here we demonstrate that commensal anaerobic bacteria-specifically clostridial Firmicutes (clusters IV and XIVa) and Bacteroidetes-are critical for maintaining C. albicans colonization resistance in mice. Using Bacteroides thetaiotamicron as a model organism, we find that hypoxia-inducible factor-1α (HIF-1α), a transcription factor important for activating innate immune effectors, and the antimicrobial peptide LL-37 (CRAMP in mice) are key determinants of C. albicans colonization resistance. Although antibiotic treatment enables C. albicans colonization, pharmacologic activation of colonic Hif1a induces CRAMP expression and results in a significant reduction of C. albicans GI colonization and a 50% decrease in mortality from invasive disease. In the setting of antibiotics, Hif1a and Camp (which encodes CRAMP) are required for B. thetaiotamicron-induced protection against C. albicans colonization of the gut. Thus, modulating C. albicans GI colonization by activation of gut mucosal immune effectors may represent a novel therapeutic approach for preventing invasive fungal disease in humans.

Enhanced digestion of waste activated sludge using microbial electrolysis cells at ambient temperature.This study examined the effects of the microbial electrolysis cell (MEC) reactions on anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge from municipal wastewater treatment under ambient temperature conditions (22-23 °C). Two lab-scale digesters, a control anaerobic digester and an electrically-assisted digester (EAD - equipped with a MEC bioanode and cathode) were operated under three solids retention times (SRT = 7, 10 and 14 days) at 22.5 ± 0.5 °C. A numerical model was also built by including the MEC electrode reactions in Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1. In experiments, the EAD showed reduced concentration of acetic acid, propionic acid, n-butyric acid and iso-butyric acid. This improved performance of the EAD is thought to be achieved by direct oxidation of the short-chain fatty acids at the bioanode as well as indirect contribution of low acetic acid concentration to enhancing beta-oxidation. The VSS and COD removal was consistently higher in the EAD by 5-10% compared to the control digester for all SRT conditions at 22.5 ± 0.5 °C. When compared to mathematical model results, this additional COD removal in the EAD was equivalent to that which would be achieved with conventional digesters at mesophilic temperatures. The magnitude of electric current in the EAD was governed by the organic loading rate while conductivity and acetic acid concentration showed negligible effects on current generation. Very high methane content (∼95%) in the biogas from both the EAD and control digester implies that the waste activated sludge contained large amounts of lipids and other complex polymeric substances compared to primary sludge.

Carbon and energy fixation of great duckweed Spirodela polyrhiza growing in swine wastewater.The ability to fix carbon and energy in swine wastewater of duckweeds was investigated using Spirodela polyrhiza as the model species. Cultures of S. polyrhiza were grown in dilutions of both original swine wastewater (OSW) and anaerobic digestion effluent (ADE) based on total ammonia nitrogen (TAN). Results showed that elevated concentrations of TAN caused decreased growth, carbon fixation, and energy production rates, particularly just after the first rise in two types of swine wastewater. Also, OSW was more suitable for S. polyrhiza cultivation than ADE. Maximum carbon and energy fixation were achieved at OSW-TAN concentrations of 12.08 and 13.07 mg L(-1), respectively. Photosynthetic activity of S. polyrhiza could be inhibited by both nutrient stress (in high-concentration wastewater) and nutrient limitation (in low-concentration wastewater), affecting its growth and ability for carbon-energy fixation.

Comparative evaluation of anaerobic digestion for sewage sludge and various organic wastes with simple modeling.Anaerobic co-digestion of sewage sludge and other organic wastes, such as kitchen garbage, food waste, and agricultural waste, at a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) is a promising method for both energy and material recovery. Substrate characteristics and the anaerobic digestion performance of sewage sludge and various organic wastes were compared using experiments and modeling. Co-digestion improved the value of digested sewage sludge as a fertilizer. The relationship between total and soluble elemental concentrations was correlated with the periodic table: most Na and K (alkali metals) were soluble, and around 20-40% of Mg and around 10-20% of Ca (alkaline earth metals) were soluble. The ratio of biodegradable chemical oxygen demand of organic wastes was 65-90%. The methane conversion ratio and methane production rate under mesophilic conditions were evaluated using a simplified mathematical model. There was reasonably close agreement between the model simulations and the experimental results in terms of methane production and nitrogen concentration. These results provide valuable information and indicate that the model can be used as a pre-evaluation tool to facilitate the introduction of co-digestion at WWTPs.

Control strategy for maximum anaerobic co-digestion performance.A control strategy for optimising the performance of anaerobic co-digestion in terms of methane productivity, digestate quality and process stability is presented. A linear programming approach is adopted to calculate the feeding of multiple substrates for maximum methane productivity, subjected to restrictions based on experimental and heuristic knowledge. Process stability is quantitatively assessed by an empirical diagnosis function comparing alkalinity ratio measurements against reference values (outputs between (-1,1]). A second empirical diagnosis function is defined to compare methane flow rate measurements against a reference value of maximum capacity (outputs between (0,1]). A variable-gain control function (outputs between (-1,1]), derived from the diagnosis functions, is defined to determine the quantitative change applied to the most active constraint of the substrate blend optimisation problem leading to a new set-point of feeding substrates blend. The control strategy works in a closed-loop architecture under which the process performance for each blend of substrates is continuously assessed. The system was successfully validated in a 1 m(3) hybrid Upflow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket - Anaerobic Filter (UASB-AF) reactor, treating blends of substrates (gelatine, glycerine and pig manure supernatant) at OLR values between 0.71 and 6.33 gCOD/L d over a period of 210 days at mesophilic conditions.

Interindividual differences in response to treatment with butyrate-producing Butyricicoccus pullicaecorum 25-3T studied in an in vitro gut model.Butyrate-producing bacteria are promising probiotic candidates to target microbial dysbiosis in gastrointestinal disorders like inflammatory bowel diseases. Butyricicoccus pullicaecorum 25-3(T), a butyrate-producing clostridial cluster IV strain, is such a candidate. Little is known about its abundance in the colon microbiota and its butyrogenic properties. We used the M-SHIME(®), an in vitro simulator for the human intestinal microbial ecosystem, to study the effect of supplementing a single dose of B. pullicaecorum 25-3(T) on lumen- and mucus-associated microbiota of eight individuals. Butyricicoccus pullicaecorum was more abundant in mucus-associated microbiota compared with lumen microbiota. Supplementation with a single dose of B. pullicaecorum 25-3(T) resulted in a temporary increase in B. pullicaecorum bacteria in lumen compartment of all individuals. In two cases, the responders, an increased butyrate production was observed as compared with the control. 16S rRNA gene amplicon sequencing revealed the microbiota of responders to be different as compared to non-responder microbiota. We can conclude that B. pullicaecorum 25-3(T) is a mucus-associated bacterium whose potency to stimulate butyrate production is characterized by a large interindividual variability in terms of composition of the receiving microbial community.

The effectiveness of various treatments in changing the nutrient status and bioavailability of risk elements in multi-element contaminated soil.Potential changes in the mobility and bioavailability of risk and essential macro- and micro-elements achieved by adding various ameliorative materials were evaluated in a model pot experiment. Spring wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) was cultivated under controlled condition for 60 days in two soils, uncontaminated Chernozem and multi-element contaminated Fluvisol containing 4900 ± 200 mg/kg Zn, 35.4 ± 3.6 mg/kg Cd, and 3035 ± 26 mg/kg Pb. The treatments were all contained the same amount of sulfur and were as follows: (i) digestate from the anaerobic fermentation of biowaste, (ii) fly ash from wood chip combustion, and (iii) ammonium sulfate. Macro- and micro-nutrients Ca, Mg, K, Fe, Mn, Cu, P, and S, and risk elements Cd, Cr, Pb, and Zn were assayed in soil extracts with 0.11 mol/l solution of CH3COOH and in roots, shoots, and grain of wheat after 30 and 60 days of cultivation. Both digestate and fly ash increased levels of macro- and micro-nutrients as well as risk elements (especially Cd and Zn; the mobility of Pb decreased after 30 days of cultivation). The changes in element mobility in ammonium sulfate-treated soils appear to be due to both changes in soil pH level and inter-element interactions. Ammonium sulfate tended to be the most effective measure for increasing nutrient uptake by plants in Chernozem but with opposite pattern in Fluvisol. Changes in plant yield and element uptake in treated plants may have been associated with the higher proline content of wheat shoots cultivated in both soils compared to control. None of the treatments decreased uptake of risk elements by wheat plants in the extremely contaminated Fluvisol, and their accumulation in wheat grains significantly exceeded maximum permissible levels; these treatments cannot be used to enable cereal and other crop production in such soils. However, the combination of increased plant growth alongside unchanged element content in plant biomass in pots treated with digestate and fly ash suggests that these treatments have a beneficial impact on yield and may be effective treatments in crops grown for phytoremediation.

Biogas stripping of ammonia from fresh digestate from a food waste digester.The efficiency of ammonia removal from fresh source-segregated domestic food waste digestate using biogas as a stripping agent was studied in batch experiments at 35, 55 and 70°C, at gas flow rates of 0.125 and 0.250Lbiogasmin(-1)L(-1)digestate with and without pH adjustment. Higher temperatures and alkaline conditions were required for effective ammonia removal, and at 35°C with or without pH adjustment or 55°C with unadjusted pH there was little or no removal. Results were compared to those from earlier studies with digestate that had been stored prior to stripping and showed that ammonia removal from fresh digestate was more difficult, with time constants 1.6-5.7 times higher than those previously reported. This has implications for the design of large-scale systems where continuous stripping of fresh digestate is likely to be the normal operating mode. A mass balance approach showed that thermal-alkaline stripping improved hydrolysis.

The use of laboratory scale reactors to predict sensitivity to changes in operating conditions for full-scale anaerobic digestion treating municipal sewage sludge.Anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge is highly complex and prone to inhibition, which can cause major issues for digester operators. The result is that there have been numerous investigations into changes in operational conditions, however to date all have focused on the qualitative sensitivities, neglecting the quantitative. This study therefore aimed to determine the quantitative sensitivities by using factorial design of experiments and small semi continuous reactors. Analysis showed total and volatile solids removals are chiefly influenced by retention time, with 79% and 59% of the observed results being attributed to retention time respectively, whereas biogas was mainly influenced by loading rate, 38%, and temperature, 22%. Notably the regression model fitted to the experimental data predicted full-scale performance with a high level of precision, indicating that small reactors are subject to the same sensitivity of full-scale digesters and thus can be used to predict changes loading, retention time, and temperature.

Anaerobic digestion of thermal pre-treated sludge at different solids concentrations--Computation of mass-energy balance and greenhouse gas emissions.The effect of thermal pre-treatment on sludge anaerobic digestion (AD) efficiency was studied at different total solids (TS) concentrations (20.0, 30.0 and 40.0 g TS/L) and digestion times (0, 5, 10, 15, 20 and 30 days) for primary, secondary and mixed wastewater sludge. Moreover, sludge pre-treatment, AD and disposal processes were evaluated based on a mass-energy balance and corresponding greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Mass balance revealed that the least quantity of digestate was generated by thermal pre-treated secondary sludge at 30.0 g TS/L. The net energy (energy output-energy input) and energy ratio (energy output/energy input) for thermal pre-treated sludge was greater than control in all cases. The reduced GHG emissions of 73.8 × 10(-3) g CO2/g of total dry solids were observed for the thermal pre-treated secondary sludge at 30.0 g TS/L. Thermal pre-treatment of sludge is energetically beneficial and required less retention time compared to control.

Removal and recovery of inhibitory volatile fatty acids from mixed acid fermentations by conventional electrodialysis.Hydrogen production during dark fermentation is inhibited by the co-production of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) such as acetic and n-butyric acid. In this study, the effectiveness of conventional electrodialysis (CED) in reducing VFA concentrations in model solutions and hydrogen fermentation broths is evaluated. This is the first time CED has been reported to remove VFAs from hydrogen fermentation broths. During 60 min of operation CED removed up to 99% of VFAs from model solutions, sucrose-fed and grass-fed hydrogen fermentation broths, containing up to 1200 mg l(-1) each of acetic acid, propionic acid, i-butyric acid, n-butyric acid, i-valeric acid, and n-valeric acid. CED's ability to remove VFAs from hydrogen fermentation broths suggests that this technology is capable of improving hydrogen yields from dark fermentation.

Enhanced biomethane potential from wheat straw by low temperature alkaline calcium hydroxide pre-treatment.A factorially designed experiment to examine the effectiveness of Ca(OH)2 pre-treatment, enzyme addition and particle size, on the mesophilic (35 °C) anaerobic digestion of wheat straw was conducted. Experiments used a 48 h pre-treatment with Ca(OH)2 7.4% (w/w), addition of Accellerase®-1500, with four particle sizes of wheat straw (1.25, 2, 3 and 10mm) and three digestion time periods (5, 15 and 30 days). By combining particle size reduction and Ca(OH)2 pre-treatment, the average methane potential was increased by 315% (from 48 NmL-CH4 g-VS(-1) to 202 NmL-CH4 g-VS(-1)) after 5 days of anaerobic digestion compared to the control. Enzyme addition or Ca(OH)2 pre-treatment with 3, 2 and 1.25 mm particle sizes had 30-day batch yields of between 301 and 335 NmL-CH4 g-VS(-1). Alkali pre-treatment of 3mm straw was shown to have the most potential as a cost effective pre-treatment and achieved 290 NmL-CH4 g-VS(-1), after only 15 days of digestion.

The effects of aerobic, resistance, and combination training on insulin sensitivity and secretion in overweight adults from STRRIDE AT/RT: a randomized trial.Most health organizations recommend a combination of aerobic training (AT) and resistance training (RT), yet few studies have compared their acute (within 24 h of the last exercise bout) and sustained (after 14 days of no exercise training) effects alone and in combination on glucose metabolism. The present study (Studies Targeting Risk Reduction Interventions through Defined Exercise-Aerobic Training and/or Resistance Training) compared the effects of AT, RT, and the combination (AT/RT) on insulin action at both acute and sustained phases. Subjects (N = 196) were 18-70 yr old (mean age = 50 yr), overweight (mean body mass index = 30 kg/m2), sedentary with moderate dyslipidemia, and were randomized into one of three 8-mo exercise groups: 1) RT: 3 days/wk, 8 exercises, 3 sets/exercise, 8-12 repetitions/set; 2) AT: equivalent to ∼19.2 km/wk (12 miles/wk) at 75% peak O2 consumption; 3) AT/RT: the combination of AT and RT. One hundred forty-four subjects completed the intervention. Eighty-eight subjects completed all pre- and postintervention testing visits. Insulin sensitivity, glucose effectiveness, and disposition index were measured via a frequently sampled intravenous glucose tolerance test with subsequent minimal model analyses. AT/RT resulted in greater improvements in insulin sensitivity, β-cell function (disposition index), and glucose effectiveness than either AT or RT alone (all P < 0.05). Approximately 52% of the improvement in insulin sensitivity by AT/RT was retained 14 days after the last exercise training bout. Neither AT or RT led to acute or chronic improvement in sensitivity index. In summary, only AT/RT (which required twice as much time as either alone) led to significant acute and sustained benefits in insulin sensitivity

Dosing time of ferric chloride to disinhibit the excessive volatile fatty acids in sludge thermophilic anaerobic digestion system.An investigation into the effect of ferric chloride (FeCl3) on the disinhibition of excessive volatile fatty acids (VFAs) in sludge thermophilic anaerobic digestion (AD) system was performed. The optimum dosing time of FeCl3 was tested with the time interval of 0 h, 36 h, 72 h, 108 h and 144 h. The maximum biogas production was obtained in the case of 72nd hour dosing group, and the biogas production potential was 293.13 ± 11.38 mL/gVS based on modified Gompertz predicted model with the maximum rate of 8.55 ± 0.38 mL/(gVS day), which was triple as that in the control group. More biodegradable organic matters were generated from sludge with FeCl3 additive and then consumed efficiently according to excitation-emission matrix (EEM) fluorescence spectra analysis in the dissolved organic matter (DOM). Acetic acid was the main inhibitor and synthetic effects occurred for the disinhibition of excessive VFAs with the additive of FeCl3, except to direct removal of acetic acid in the system.

Rye affects bacterial translocation, intestinal viscosity, microbiota composition and bone mineralization in Turkey poults.Previously, we have reported that rye significantly increased both viscosity and Clostridium perfringens proliferation when compared with corn in an in vitro digestive model. Two independent trials were conducted to evaluate the effect of rye as a source of energy on bacterial translocation, intestinal viscosity, gut microbiota composition, and bone mineralization, when compared with corn in turkey poults. In each experiment, day-of-hatch, turkey poults were randomly assigned to either a corn or a rye diet (n = 0 /group). At 10 d of age, in both experiments, 12 birds/group were given an oral gavage dose of fluorescein isothiocyanate dextran (FITC-d). After 2.5 h of oral gavage, blood and liver samples were collected to evaluate the passage of FITC-d and bacterial translocation (BT) respectively. Duodenum, ileum and cecum gut sections were collected to evaluate intestinal viscosity and to enumerate gut microbiota. Tibias were collected for observation of bone parameters. Broilers fed with a rye diet showed increased (p<0.05) intestinal viscosity, BT, and serum FITC-d. Bacterial enumeration revealed that turkey poults fed with rye had increased the number of total lactic acid bacteria (LAB) in all three sections of the gastrointestinal tract evaluated when compared to turkey poults fed with corn. Turkey poults fed with rye also had significantly higher coliforms in duodenum and ileum but not in the ceca, whereas the total number of anaerobes increased only in duodenum. A significant reduction in bone strength and bone mineralization was observed in turkey poults fed with rye when compared with corn fed turkey poults. In conclusion, rye evoked mucosal damage in turkey poults that increased intestinal viscosity, increased leakage through the intestinal tract, and altered the microbiota composition and bone mineralization. Studies to evaluate dietary inclusion of selected Direct-Fed Microbial (DFM) candidates that produce exogenous enzymes in rye fed turkey poults are currently being evaluated.

High rate psychrophilic anaerobic digestion of undiluted dairy cow feces.Novel high rate psychrophilic (20°C) anaerobic digestion (PAD) of undiluted cow feces (11.5-13.5% total solids) was demonstrated using sequence batch reactor in long-term operation with successive cycles of 21days treatment cycle length (TCL). At organic loading rates (OLR) 9.0, 10.0, 11.0 and 12.0g TCOD kg(-1) inoculum d(-1) average specific methane yield (SMY) was 154.0±11.7, 152.1±12.2, 126.0±2.8 and 116.0±6.1NL CH4 per kg of VS fed, respectively. Volatile solids removal averaged around 31.7±3.3%, 32.2±1.0%, 27.9±2.2% and 23.4±0.5%, respectively. Substrate-to-inoculum ratio (SIR; wet-mass basis) ranged between 1.17±0.06 and 1.43±0.05. Concentration of volatile fatty acids in the bioreactors during the TCL indicated that hydrolysis was the rate limiting reaction. High rate PAD of undiluted cow feces is possible at OLR (g TCOD kg(-1) inoculum d(-1)) 9.0 and 10.0 with a TCL of 21days; however, OLR of 11.0 and 12.0 are also possible but require longer TCL to maintain the SMY.

Effects of feedstock ratio and organic loading rate on the anaerobic mesophilic co-digestion of rice straw and pig manure.In order to investigate the effects of feedstock ratio and organic loading rate (OLR) on the anaerobic mesophilic co-digestion of rice straw (RS) and pig manure (PM), batch bottle tests (2.5L) were carried out at volatile solid (VS) ratios of 0:1, 1:2, 1:1, 2:1, and 1:0 (RS/PM), and continuous bench experiments (40L) were carried out at OLRs of 3.0, 3.6, 4.2, 4.8, 6.0, 8.0, and 12.0kg VS/(m(3)d) with optimal VS ratio. The results showed that the optimal ratio was 1:1 in terms of biogas yield. Stable biogas production with an average specific biogas production of 413L/kg VS was obtained at an OLR of 3-8kg VS/(m(3)d). Anaerobic co-digestion was severely inhibited by the accumulation of volatile fatty acids when the OLR was 12kg VS/(m(3)d). Further, light and serious foaming were observed at OLR of 8 and 12kg VS/(m(3)d), respectively.

Metabolism of dextran sulfate sodium by intestinal bacteria in rat cecum is related to induction of colitis.Ulcerative colitis induced by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) is one of the most widely used experimental animal models. However, the mechanism responsible for the pathogenesis of the colitis is still unclear. The aim of the present study was to clarify the events occurring after administration of DSS to rats focusing on the relationship between the intestinal bacterial metabolism of DSS and the intestinal mucosal lesions in the model. Within 2 d after DSS administration, severe injury of the cecal mucosa was evident, together with bloody feces and blood in the cecum. However, these lesions were repressed by administration of antibiotics. On the other hand, DSS was found to be metabolized under anaerobic conditions upon incubation with cecal content in vitro, first being desulfated and then undergoing carbohydrate moiety degradation. However, no such metabolic process occurred when cecal content from rats that had been administered antibiotics was employed. These results indicate that the initial step of DSS-induced ulcerative colitis is lesioning of the cecal mucosa, which is related to metabolism of DSS by intestinal bacteria.

Staphylococcus aureus MnhF mediates cholate efflux and facilitates survival under human colonic conditions.Resistance to the innate defenses of the intestine is crucial for the survival and carriage of Staphylococcus aureus, a common colonizer of the human gut. Bile salts produced by the liver and secreted into the intestines are one such group of molecules with potent antimicrobial activity. The mechanisms by which S. aureus is able to resist such defenses in order to colonize and survive in the human gut are unknown. Here we show that mnhF confers resistance to bile salts, which can be abrogated by efflux pump inhibitors. MnhF mediates the efflux of radiolabeled cholic acid both in S. aureus and when heterologously expressed in Escherichia coli, rendering them resistant. Deletion of mnhF attenuated the survival of S. aureus in an anaerobic three-stage continuous-culture model of the human colon (gut model), which represents different anatomical areas of the large intestine.

Model development and evaluation of methane potential from anaerobic co-digestion of municipal wastewater sludge and un-dewatered grease trap waste.The performance of anaerobic co-digestion of municipal wastewater sludge with un-dewatered grease trap waste was assessed using modified biochemical methane potential tests under mesophilic conditions (35°C). Methane potentials, process inhibition and chemical behavior of the process were analyzed at different grease trap waste feed ratios on volatile solids basis. Nonlinear regression analyses of first order reaction and modified Gompertz equations were performed to assist in interpretation of the experimental results. Methane potential of un-dewatered grease trap waste was measured as 606 mL CH4/g VS(added), while methane potential of municipal wastewater sludge was only 223 mL CH4/g VS(added). The results indicated that anaerobic digestion of grease trap waste without dewatering yields less methane potential than concentrated/dewatered grease trap waste because of high wastewater content of un-dewatered grease trap waste. However, anaerobic co-digestion of municipal wastewater sludge and grease trap waste still yields over two times more methane potential and approximately 10% more volatile solids reduction than digestion of municipal wastewater sludge alone. The anaerobic co-digestion process inhibitions were reported at 70% and greater concentrated/dewatered grease trap waste additions on volatile solids basis in previous studies; however, no inhibition was observed at 100% un-dewatered grease trap waste digestion in the present study. These results indicate that anaerobic co-digestion of un-dewatered grease trap waste may reduce the inhibition risk compared to anaerobic co-digestion of concentrated/dewatered grease trap waste. In addition, a mathematical model was developed in this study for the first time to describe the relationship between grease trap waste feed ratio on volatile solids basis and resulting methane potential. Experimental data from the current study as well as previous biochemical methane potential studies were successfully fit to this relationship and allowed estimation of key performance parameters that provide additional insight into the factors affecting biochemical methane potential.

Costs of food waste in South Africa: Incorporating inedible food waste.The economic, social and environmental costs of food waste are being increasingly recognised. Food waste consists of both edible and inedible components. Whilst wastage of edible food is problematic for obvious reasons, there are also costs associated with the disposal of the inedible fraction to landfill. This is the third in a series of papers examining the costs of food waste throughout the value chain in South Africa. The previous papers focused on the edible portion of food waste. In this paper, costs associated with inedible food waste in South Africa are estimated, in terms of the value foregone by not recovering this waste for use in downstream applications, such as energy generation or composting; as well as costs associated with disposal to landfill. Opportunity costs are estimated at R6.4 (US$0.64) billion per annum, or R2668 (US$266) per tonne. Adding this to the previous estimate for edible food waste of R61.5 billion per annum (in 2012 prices; equivalent to R65 billion in 2013 prices) results in a total opportunity cost of food waste in South Africa (in terms of loss of a potentially valuable food source or resource) of R71.4 (US$7.14) billion per annum, or R5667 (US$567) per tonne. Thereafter, estimates of the costs associated with disposal of this food waste to landfill, including both financial costs and externalities (social and environmental costs), are taken into account. These costs amount to R255 (US$25) per tonne, giving rise to a total cost of food waste in South Africa of R75 billion (US$7.5 billion) per annum, or R5922 (US$592) per tonne. This is equivalent to 2.2% of South Africa's 2013 GDP.

Anaerobic biodegradability of fish remains: experimental investigation and parameter estimation.The generation of organic waste associated with aquaculture fish processing has increased significantly in recent decades. The objective of this study is to evaluate the anaerobic biodegradability of several fish processing fractions, as well as water treatment sludge, for tilapia and sturgeon species cultured in recirculated aquaculture systems. After substrate characterization, the ultimate biodegradability and the hydrolytic rate were estimated by fitting a first-order kinetic model with the biogas production profiles. In general, the first-order model was able to reproduce the biogas profiles properly with a high correlation coefficient. In the case of tilapia, the skin/fin, viscera, head and flesh presented a high level of biodegradability, above 310 mLCH₄gCOD⁻¹, whereas the head and bones showed a low hydrolytic rate. For sturgeon, the results for all fractions were quite similar in terms of both parameters, although viscera presented the lowest values. Both the substrate characterization and the kinetic analysis of the anaerobic degradation may be used as design criteria for implementing anaerobic digestion in a recirculating aquaculture system.

Effects of influent fractionation, kinetics, stoichiometry and mass transfer on CH4, H2 and CO2 production for (plant-wide) modeling of anaerobic digesters.This paper examines the importance of influent fractionation, kinetic, stoichiometric and mass transfer parameter uncertainties when modeling biogas production in wastewater treatment plants. The anaerobic digestion model no. 1 implemented in the plant-wide context provided by the benchmark simulation model no. 2 is used to quantify the generation of CH₄, H₂and CO₂. A comprehensive global sensitivity analysis based on (i) standardized regression coefficients (SRC) and (ii) Morris' screening's (MS's) elementary effects reveals the set of parameters that influence the biogas production uncertainty the most. This analysis is repeated for (i) different temperature regimes and (ii) different solids retention times (SRTs) in the anaerobic digester. Results show that both SRC and MS are good measures of sensitivity unless the anaerobic digester is operating at low SRT and mesophilic conditions. In the latter situation, and due to the intrinsic nonlinearities of the system, SRC fails in decomposing the variance of the model predictions (R² < 0.7) making MS a more reliable method. At high SRT, influent fractionations are the most influential parameters for predictions of CH₄and CO₂emissions. Nevertheless, when the anaerobic digester volume is decreased (for the same load), the role of acetate degraders gains more importance under mesophilic conditions, while lipids and fatty acid metabolism is more influential under thermophilic conditions. The paper ends with a critical discussion of the results and their implications during model calibration and validation exercises.

In vitro colonic metabolism of coffee and chlorogenic acid results in selective changes in human faecal microbiota growth.Coffee is a relatively rich source of chlorogenic acids (CGA), which, as other polyphenols, have been postulated to exert preventive effects against CVD and type 2 diabetes. As a considerable proportion of ingested CGA reaches the large intestine, CGA may be capable of exerting beneficial effects in the large gut. Here, we utilise a stirred, anaerobic, pH-controlled, batch culture fermentation model of the distal region of the colon in order to investigate the impact of coffee and CGA on the growth of the human faecal microbiota. Incubation of coffee samples with the human faecal microbiota led to the rapid metabolism of CGA (4 h) and the production of dihydrocaffeic acid and dihydroferulic acid, while caffeine remained unmetabolised. The coffee with the highest levels of CGA (P<0·05, relative to the other coffees) induced a significant increase in the growth of Bifidobacterium spp. relative to the control vessel at 10 h after exposure (P<0·05). Similarly, an equivalent quantity of CGA (80·8 mg, matched with that in high-CGA coffee) induced a significant increase in the growth of Bifidobacterium spp. (P<0·05). CGA alone also induced a significant increase in the growth of the Clostridium coccoides-Eubacterium rectale group (P<0·05). This selective metabolism and subsequent amplification of specific bacterial populations could be beneficial to host health.

Production, characterization, and biogas application of magnetic hydrochar from cellulose.Hydrothermal carbonization (HTC) produces carbon-rich nano-micro size particles. In this study, magnetic hydrochar (MHC) was prepared from model compound cellulose by simply adding ferrites during HTC. The effects of ferrites on HTC were evaluated by characterizing solid MHC and corresponding process liquid. Additionally, magnetic stability of MHC was tested by magnetic susceptibility method. Finally, MHC was used as support media for anaerobic films in anaerobic digestion (AD). Ash-free mass yield was around 50% less in MHC than hydrochar produced without ferrites at any certain HTC reaction condition, where organic part of MHC is mainly carbon. In fact, amorphous hydrochar was growing on the surface of inorganic ferrites. MHC maintained magnetic susceptibility regardless of reaction time at reaction temperature 250°C. Pronounced inhibitory effects of magnetic hydrochar occurred during start-up of AD but diminished with prolong AD times. Visible biofilms were observed on the MHC by laser scanning microscope after AD.

Rapid fluorescence-based measurement of toxicity in anaerobic digestion.A rapid fluorescence measurement based on resazurin reduction was developed and applied for the detection of toxicants/inhibitors to anaerobic digestion metabolism. By initially using a pure facultative anaerobic strain, Enterococcus faecalis as a model organism, this technique proved to be fast and sensitive when detecting the model toxicant, pentachlorophenol (PCP). The technique revealed significant metabolic changes in Enterococcus faecalis with a PCP spike ranging from 0.05 to 100 mg/L, and could detect PCP's toxicity to E. faecalis at a concentration of only 0.05 mg/L in 8 min. Furthermore, by extending this technique to a mixed anaerobic sludge, not only could the effect of 0.05-100 mg/L PCP be determined on anaerobic digestion metabolism within 10 min, but also its rate of biogas production. These results suggest that a resazurin-based fluorescence measurement can potentially be incorporated into a microfluidic system to develop a biosensor for the real-time monitoring, control and early warning of toxicant/inhibitor loads in the influent to an anaerobic digestion system.

Pretreatment of wheat straw with potassium hydroxide for increasing enzymatic and microbial degradability.The pretreatment of wheat straw with potassium hydroxide (KOH) at ambient temperature (20°C) was investigated. The pretreatment effects on chemical composition and physical structures, and subsequent enzymatic hydrolysis and anaerobic digestion were evaluated. Wheat straw at 10% total solids (TS) was treated with KOH solution for 24h at a wide range of KOH loadings from 2% to 50% (w/w dry basis). Higher KOH loading resulted in higher lignin reduction from the straw and chemical oxygen demand (COD) in the resulting black liquor. Maximum lignin reduction of 54.7% was observed at 50% KOH loading. In comparison to untreated straw, specific hydrolysis yields achieved 14.0-92.3% over the range of 2-50% KOH loading, and methane yields increased 16.7-77.5% for KOH loadings of 10-50%, respectively. Accounting for losses during pretreatment, 20% KOH loading resulted in maximum overall reducing sugar yield and methane yield and therefore is the recommended loading for pretreatment under these conditions.

Oral Lactobacilli and Dental Caries: A Model for Niche Adaptation in Humans.Lactobacilli have been associated with dental caries for over a century. Here, we review the pertinent literature along with findings from our own study to formulate a working hypothesis about the natural history and role of lactobacilli. Unlike most indigenous microbes that stably colonize a host, lactobacilli appear to be planktonic, opportunistic settlers that can gather and multiply only in certain restrictive niches of the host, at least within the oral cavity. We postulate that the following essential requirements are necessary for sustained colonization of lactobacilli in humans: 1) a stagnant, retentive niche that is mostly anaerobic; 2) a low pH milieu; and 3) ready access to carbohydrates. Three sites on the human body meet these specifications: caries lesions, the stomach, and the vagina. Only a handful of Lactobacillus species is found in caries lesions, but they are largely absent in caries-free children. Lactobacilli present in caries lesions represent both a major contributor to caries progression and a major reservoir to the gastrointestinal (GI) tract. We extend the assertion from other investigators that lactobacilli found in the GI tract originate in the oral cavity by proposing that lactobacilli in the oral cavity arise from caries lesions. This, in turn, leads us to reflect on the health implications of the lactobacilli in the mouth and downstream GI and to ponder whether these or any of the Lactobacillus species are truly indigenous to the human GI tract or the oral cavity.

Environmental implications of anaerobic digestion for manure management in dairy farms in Mexico: a life cycle perspective.The environmental profile of milk production in Mexico was analysed for three manure management scenarios: fertilization (F), anaerobic digestion (AD) and enhanced anaerobic digestion (EAD). The study used the life cycle assessment (LCA) technique, considering a 'cradle-to-gate' approach. The assessment model was constructed using SimaPro LCA software, and the life cycle impact assessment was performed according to the ReCiPe method. Dairy farms with AD and EAD scenarios were found to exhibit, respectively, 12% and 27% less greenhouse gas emissions, 58% and 31% less terrestrial acidification, and 3% and 18% less freshwater eutrophication than the F scenario. A different trend was observed in the damage to resource availability indicator, as the F scenario presented 6% and 22% less damage than the EAD and AD scenarios, respectively. The magnitude of environmental damage from milk production in the three dairy manure management scenarios, using a general single score indicator, was 0.118, 0.107 and 0.081 Pt/L of milk for the F, AD and EAD scenarios, respectively. These results indicate that manure management systems with anaerobic digestion can improve the environmental profile of each litre of milk produced.

Integration of pyrolysis and anaerobic digestion--use of aqueous liquor from digestate pyrolysis for biogas production.Anaerobic digestion of aqueous pyrolysis liquor derived from pyrolysis of solid digestate was tested in batch mode using an un-adapted inoculum. Three pyrolysis liquors produced at 330°C, 430°C and 530°C in four COD-based concentrations of 3, 6, 12 and 30 g L(-1) were investigated. The three lower concentrations showed considerable biogas production, whereas the 30 g L(-1) dosage caused process inhibition. The highest methane yield of 199.1±18.5 mL g(COD)(-1) (COD removal: 56.9±5.3%) was observed for the 330°C pyrolysis liquor, followed by the 430°C sample with only slightly lower values. The 530°C sample dropped to a yield of 129.3±19.7 mL g(COD)(-1) (COD removal: 36.9±5.6%). Most VOCs contained in the pyrolysis liquor (i.e. furfural, phenol, catechol, guaiacol, and levoglucosan) were reduced below detection limit (cresol by 10-60%). Consequently, integrated pyrolysis and anaerobic digestion in addition to thermochemical conversion of digestate also promises bioconversion of pyrolysis liquors.

An evaluation of the social and private efficiency of adoption: anaerobic digesters and greenhouse gas mitigation.Climate science has begun to recognize the important role of non-carbon dioxide greenhouse gas emissions, including methane. Given the important contribution of methane, anaerobic digesters (ADs) on dairy farms in the U.S. present an opportunity to reduce greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. We quantify the social and private costs and benefits of ADs that have been adopted in California and find that, despite high initial costs, large reductions in GHG emissions bring significant social benefits and represent good social investments given a $36 per-ton social cost of carbon. Subsidies that lower the initial private investment cost can help align socially and privately optimal adoption decisions.

Enhancing methane production from waste activated sludge using a novel indigenous iron activated peroxidation pre-treatment process.Methane production from anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge (WAS) is limited by the slow hydrolysis rate and/or poor methane potential of WAS. This study presents a novel pre-treatment strategy based on indigenous iron (in WAS) activated peroxidation to enhance methane production from WAS. Pre-treatment of WAS for 30 min at 50mg H2O2/g total solids (dry weight) and pH 2.0 (iron concentration in WAS was 7 mg/g TS) substantially enhanced WAS solubilization. Biochemical methane potential tests demonstrated that methane production was improved by 10% at a digestion time of 16d after incorporating the indigenous iron activated peroxidation pre-treatment. Model-based analysis indicated that indigenous iron activated peroxidation pre-treatment improved the methane potential by 13%, whereas the hydrolysis rate was not significantly affected. The economic analysis showed that the proposed pre-treatment method can save the cost by $112,000 per year in a treatment plant with a population equivalent of 300,000.

Co-digestion of municipal sewage sludge and solid waste: modelling of carbohydrate, lipid and protein content influence.Solid wastes from industrial, commercial and community activities are of growing concern as the total volume of waste produced continues to increase. The knowledge of the specific composition and characteristics of the waste is an important tool in the correct development of the anaerobic digestion process. The problems derived from the anaerobic digestion of sole substrates with high lipid, carbohydrate or protein content lead to the co-digestion of these substrates with another disposed waste, such as sewage sludge. The kinetic of the anaerobic digestion is especially difficult to explain adequately, although some mathematical models are able to represent the main aspects of a biological system, thus improving understanding of the parameters involved in the process. The aim of this work is to evaluate the experimental biochemical methane potential on the co-digestion of sewage sludge with different solid wastes (grease; spent grain and cow manure) through the implementation of four kinetic models. The co-digestion of grease waste and mixed sludge obtained the best improvements from the sole substrates, with additional positive synergistic effects. The Gompertz model fits the experimental biochemical methane potential to an accuracy of 99%, showing a correlation between the percentage of lipid in the substrates and co-digestions and the period of lag phase.

Nitrite, a novel method to decrease ischemia/reperfusion injury in the rat liver.To investigate whether nitrite administered prior to ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) reduces liver injury.
Thirty-six male Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized to 3 groups, including sham operated (n = 8), 45-min segmental ischemia of the left liver lobe (IR, n = 14) and ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) preceded by the administration of 480 nmol of nitrite (n = 14). Serum transaminases were measured after 4 h of reperfusion. Liver microdialysate (MD) was sampled in 30-min intervals and analyzed for glucose, lactate, pyruvate and glycerol as well as the total nitrite and nitrate (NOx). The NOx was measured in serum.
Aspartate aminotransferase (AST) at the end of reperfusion was higher in the IR group than in the nitrite group (40 ± 6.8 μkat/L vs 22 ± 2.6 μkat/L, P = 0.022). Similarly, alanine aminotransferase (ALT) was also higher in the I/R group than in the nitrite group (34 ± 6 μkat vs 14 ± 1.5 μkat, P = 0.0045). The NOx in MD was significantly higher in the nitrite group than in the I/R group (10.1 ± 2.9 μmol/L vs 3.2 ± 0.9 μmol/L, P = 0.031) after the administration of nitrite. During ischemia, the levels decreased in both groups and then increased again during reperfusion. At the end of reperfusion, there was a tendency towards a higher NOx in the I/R group than in the nitrite group (11.6 ± 0.7 μmol/L vs 9.2 ± 1.1 μmol/L, P = 0.067). Lactate in MD was significantly higher in the IR group than in the nitrite group (3.37 ± 0.18 mmol/L vs 2.8 ± 0.12 mmol/L, P = 0.01) during ischemia and the first 30 min of reperfusion. During the same period, glycerol was also higher in the IRI group than in the nitrite group (464 ± 38 μmol/L vs 367 ± 31 μmol/L, P = 0.049). With respect to histology, there were more signs of tissue damage in the I/R group than in the nitrite group, and 29% of the animals in the I/R group exhibited necrosis compared with none in the nitrite group. Inducible nitric oxide synthase transcription increased between early ischemia (t = 15) and the end of reperfusion in both groups.
Nitrite administered before liver ischemia in the rat liver reduces anaerobic metabolism and cell necrosis, which could be important in the clinical setting.

Controlling a toxic shock of pentachlorophenol (PCP) to anaerobic digestion using activated carbon addition.Several powdered and granular activated carbons (PACs and GACs) were tested for adsorption of pentachlorophenol (PCP) in bench-scale anaerobic digestion reactors to control the toxicity of PCP to acetoclastic methanogenesis. Results showed that the adsorption capacities of PAC were reduced by 21-54%, depending on the PAC addition time, in the presence of the methanogenic sludge compared to the controls without sludge. As a preventive measure, PAC at a low dose of 20% (mass ratio to the VSS) added 24 h prior to, or simultaneously with, the addition of PCP could completely eliminate the toxic effects of PCP. At the same dose, PAC also enabled methanogenesis to recover immediately after the sludge had been exposed to PCP for 24h. GAC was not effective in enabling the recovery of methanogenesis due to its slow adsorption kinetics; however, at a dose of 80% it could partially ameliorate the toxic shock of PCP.

Anaerobic co-digestion of pig manure and algae: impact of intracellular algal products recovery on co-digestion performance.This paper investigates anaerobic co-digestion of pig manure and algae (Scenedesmus sp.) with and without extraction of intracellular algal co-products, with views towards the development of a biorefinery concept for lipid, protein and/or biogas production. Protein and/or lipids were extracted from Scenedesmus sp. using free nitrous acid pre-treatments and solvent-based Soxhlet extraction, respectively. Processing increased algae methane yield between 29% and 37% compared to raw algae (VS basis), but reduced the amount of algae available for digestion. Co-digestion experiments showed a synergy between pig manure and raw algae that increased raw algae methane yield from 0.163 to 0.245 m(3) CH4 kg(-1)VS. No such synergy was observed when algal residues were co-digested with pig manure. Finally, experimental results were used to develop a high-level concept for an integrated biorefinery processing pig manure and onsite cultivated algae, evaluating methane production and co-product recovery per mass of pig manure entering the refinery.

Fluid dynamic analysis of a continuous stirred tank reactor for technical optimization of wastewater digestion.Continuous stirred tank reactors (CSTR) are widely used in wastewater treatment plants to reduce the organic matter and microorganism present in sludge by anaerobic digestion. The present study carries out a numerical analysis of the fluid dynamic behaviour of a CSTR in order to optimize the process energetically. The characterization of the sludge flow inside the digester tank, the residence time distribution and the active volume of the reactor under different criteria are determined. The effects of design and power of the mixing system on the active volume of the CSTR are analyzed. The numerical model is solved under non-steady conditions by examining the evolution of the flow during the stop and restart of the mixing system. An intermittent regime of the mixing system, which kept the active volume between 94% and 99%, is achieved. The results obtained can lead to the eventual energy optimization of the mixing system of the CSTR.

Effect of enzymatic pretreatment on anaerobic co-digestion of sugar beet pulp silage and vinasse.Results of sugar beet pulp silage (SBPS) and vinasse (mixed in weight ratios of 3:1, 1:1 and 1:3, respectively) co-fermentation, obtained in this study, provide evidence that addition of too high amount of vinasse into the SBPS decreases biogas yields. The highest biogas productivity (598.1mL/g VS) was achieved at the SBPS-vinasse ratio of 3:1 (w/w). Biogas yields from separately fermented SBPS and vinasse were by 13% and 28.6% lower, respectively. It was found that enzymatic pretreatment of SBPS before methane fermentation that caused partial degradation of component polysaccharides, considerably increased biogas production. The highest biogas yield (765.5mL/g VS) was obtained from enzymatic digests of SBPS-vinasse (3:1) blend (27.9% more than from fermentation of the counterpart blend, which was not treated with enzymes). The simulation of potential biogas production from all the aforementioned mixtures using the Gompertz equation showed fair fit to the experimental results.

Polychlorinated biphenyl concentration changes in sewage sludge and organic municipal waste mixtures during composting and anaerobic digestion.We determined the changes in polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) concentrations in a mixture of sewage sludge and the organic fraction of municipal waste during composting and during anaerobic digestion. The processes were carried out on a laboratory scale. The PCBs were analyzed in the waste samples using gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. We evaluated the rates at which the PCB concentrations decreased during composting and during anaerobic digestion and compared the PCB degradation kinetics during these processes. The most important conclusion of this work is that anaerobic digestion is much more effective than composting at removing PCBs from a mixture of sewage sludge and the organic fraction of municipal waste.

The effects of temperature, organic matter and time-dependency on rheological properties of dry anaerobic digested swine manure.An efficient way to avoid the pollution of swine wastewater is the application of dry anaerobic digestion, which needs rheological parameter for stirring and pipe designing. The rheological properties of this kind of sludge have been studied for many decades, yet their effects only solid concentration has been investigated widely. In this paper, the influences of temperature, organic and time-dependency on the efficiency of anaerobic digested swine manure were studied. The viscosity decreased with temperature arranged from 10 to 60 °C which caused increase in protein from 7.18 to 8.49 g/kg. 60 °C can make the digested swine manure with TS from 16.6% to 21.5% reach to the same rheology state. The added peptone decreased the viscosity because of its function of water-reducing admixture and air entraining mixture. Time-dependent experiment showed the decrease of shear stress over time. The first and the second yield stress of dry anaerobic digested swine manure were evaluated through time-dependent model.

Methanogenic food web in the gut contents of methane-emitting earthworm Eudrilus eugeniae from Brazil.The anoxic saccharide-rich conditions of the earthworm gut provide an ideal transient habitat for ingested microbes capable of anaerobiosis. It was recently discovered that the earthworm Eudrilus eugeniae from Brazil can emit methane (CH4) and that ingested methanogens might be associated with this emission. The objective of this study was to resolve trophic interactions of bacteria and methanogens in the methanogenic food web in the gut contents of E. eugeniae. RNA-based stable isotope probing of bacterial 16S rRNA as well as mcrA and mrtA (the alpha subunit of methyl-CoM reductase and its isoenzyme, respectively) of methanogens was performed with [(13)C]-glucose as a model saccharide in the gut contents. Concomitant fermentations were augmented by the rapid consumption of glucose, yielding numerous products, including molecular hydrogen (H2), carbon dioxide (CO2), formate, acetate, ethanol, lactate, succinate and propionate. Aeromonadaceae-affiliated facultative aerobes, and obligate anaerobes affiliated to Lachnospiraceae, Veillonellaceae and Ruminococcaceae were associated with the diverse fermentations. Methanogenesis was ongoing during incubations, and (13)C-labeling of CH4 verified that supplemental [(13)C]-glucose derived carbon was dissimilated to CH4. Hydrogenotrophic methanogens affiliated with Methanobacteriaceae and Methanoregulaceae were linked to methanogenesis, and acetogens related to Peptostreptoccocaceae were likewise found to be participants in the methanogenic food web. H2 rather than acetate stimulated methanogenesis in the methanogenic gut content enrichments, and acetogens appeared to dissimilate supplemental H2 to acetate in methanogenic enrichments. These findings provide insight on the processes and associated taxa potentially linked to methanogenesis and the turnover of organic carbon in the alimentary canal of methane-emitting E. eugeniae.

Alkaline treatment of high-solids sludge and its application to anaerobic digestion.High-solids anaerobic digestion is a promising new process for sludge reduction and bioenergy recovery, requiring smaller digestion tanks and less energy for heating, but a longer digestion time, than traditional low-solids anaerobic digestion. To accelerate this process, alkaline sludge disintegration was tested as a pretreatment method for anaerobic digestion of high-solids sludge. The results showed that alkaline treatment effectively disintegrated both low-solids sludge and high-solids sludge, and treatment duration of 30 min was the most efficient. The relation between sludge disintegration degree and NaOH dose can be described by a transmutative power function model. At NaOH dose lower than 0.2 mol/L, sludge disintegration degree remained virtually unchanged when sludge total solids (TS) content increased from 2.0 to 11.0%, and decreased only slightly when sludge TS increased to 14.2%. Although high-solids sludge required a slightly higher molarity of NaOH to reach the same disintegration level of low-solids sludge, the required mass of NaOH actually decreased due to sludge thickening. From the view of NaOH consumption, sludge TS of 8-12% and a NaOH dose of 0.05 mol/L were optimum conditions for alkaline pretreatment, which resulted in a slight increase in accumulative biogas yield, but a decrease by 24-29% in digestion time during the subsequent anaerobic digestion.

Modelling wastewater treatment in a submerged anaerobic membrane bioreactor.Mathematical modelling has been widely applied to membrane bioreactor (MBRs) processes. However, to date, very few studies have reported on the application of the anaerobic digestion model N.1 (ADM1) to anaerobic membrane processes. The aim of this study was to evaluate the applicability of the ADM1 to a submerged anaerobic MBR (SAMBR) treating simulated industrial wastewater composed of cheese whey and sucrose. This study demonstrated that the biological processes involved in SAMBRs can be modelled by using the ADM1. Moreover, the results showed that very few modifications of the parameters describing the ADM1 were required to reasonably fit the experimental data. In particular, adaptation to the specific conditions of the coefficients describing the wastewater characterisation and the reduction of the hydrolysis rate of particulate carbohydrate (khyd,ch) from 0.25 d(-1) (as suggested by the ADM1 for high-rate mesophilic reactors) to 0.13 d(-1) were required to fit the experimental data.

Modeling the anaerobic digestion of cane-molasses vinasse: extension of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) with sulfate reduction for a very high strength and sulfate rich wastewater.This research presents the modeling of the anaerobic digestion of cane-molasses vinasse, hereby extending the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 with sulfate reduction for a very high strength and sulfate rich wastewater. Based on a sensitivity analysis, four parameters of the original ADM1 and all sulfate reduction parameters were calibrated. Although some deviations were observed between model predictions and experimental values, it was shown that sulfates, total aqueous sulfide, free sulfides, methane, carbon dioxide and sulfide in the gas phase, gas flow, propionic and acetic acids, chemical oxygen demand (COD), and pH were accurately predicted during model validation. The model showed high (±10%) to medium (10%-30%) accuracy predictions with a mean absolute relative error ranging from 1% to 26%, and was able to predict failure of methanogenesis and sulfidogenesis when the sulfate loading rate increased. Therefore, the kinetic parameters and the model structure proposed in this work can be considered as valid for the sulfate reduction process in the anaerobic digestion of cane-molasses vinasse when sulfate and organic loading rates range from 0.36 to 1.57 kg [Formula: see text]  m(-3) d(-1) and from 7.66 to 12 kg COD m(-3) d(-1), respectively.

Effect of lipase addition on hydrolysis and biomethane production of Chinese food waste.The lipase obtained from Aspergillums niger was applied to promote the hydrolysis of food waste for achieving high biomethane production. Two strategies of lipase additions were investigated. One (Group A) was to pre-treat food waste to pre-decompose lipid to fatty acids before anaerobic digestion, and another one (Group B) was to add lipase to anaerobic digester directly to degrade lipid inside digester. The lipase was used at the concentrations of 0.1%, 0.5%, and 1.0% (w/v). The results showed that Group A achieved higher biomethane production, TS and VS reductions than those of Group B. At 0.5% lipase concentration, Group A obtained experimental biomethane yield of 500.1 mL/g VS(added), 4.97-26.50% higher than that of Group B. The maximum Bd of 73.8% was also achieved in Group A. Therefore, lipase pre-treatment strategy is recommended. This might provide one of alternatives for efficient biomethane production from food waste and mitigating environmental impact associated.

Time to exhaustion at anaerobic threshold in swimming rats: metabolic investigation.The purpose of this study was to determine the time to exhaustion (tlim) for swimming exercise at anaerobic threshold (AT) intensity in rats and to analyze metabolic consequences on serum and tissues levels. Eighteen rats were divided in control (CG) and exercised (EG) groups, being the former submitted to tlim. We analyzed the glycogen content of liver and ten skeletal muscles, as well as serum parameters. Parametric statistic was used with significance level at p < 0.05. The tlim, which was correspondent to 114.37 ± 36.23 min, promoted significant decrease in blood glucose (42.99 %; p < 0.01) and an increase in free fatty acids (167.12 %; p < 0.01) when EG was compared to CG. We did not find differences in albumin, total protein uric acid and creatinine between groups. The proposed exercise at individualized AT intensity promoted severe glycogen depletion for all tissues (mean of 78.05 % for all muscles and 89 % for liver). With substantial control of exercise intensity, our study establishes a useful rodent model that can be further explored, contributing to the advancement on knowledge and better understanding of exhaustion mechanisms.

Relating methanogen community structure and anaerobic digester function.Much remains unknown about the relationships between microbial community structure and anaerobic digester function. However, knowledge of links between community structure and function, such as specific methanogenic activity (SMA) and COD removal rate, are valuable to improve anaerobic bioprocesses. In this work, quantitative structure-activity relationships (QSARs) were developed using multiple linear regression (MLR) to predict SMA using methanogen community structure descriptors for 49 cultures. Community descriptors were DGGE demeaned standardized band intensities for amplicons of a methanogen functional gene (mcrA). First, predictive accuracy of MLR QSARs was assessed using cross validation with training (n = 30) and test sets (n = 19) for glucose and propionate SMA data. MLR equations correlating band intensities and SMA demonstrated good predictability for glucose (q(2) = 0.54) and propionate (q(2) = 0.53). Subsequently, data from all 49 cultures were used to develop QSARs to predict SMA values. Higher intensities of two bands were correlated with higher SMA values; high abundance of methanogens associated with these two bands should be encouraged to attain high SMA values. QSARs are helpful tools to identify key microorganisms or to study and improve many bioprocesses. Development of new, more robust QSARs is encouraged for anaerobic digestion or other bioprocesses, including nitrification, nitritation, denitrification, anaerobic ammonium oxidation, and enhanced biological phosphorus removal.

Combined treatment of olive mill wastewater by Fenton's reagent and anaerobic biological process.This work presents the application of Fenton's reagent process combined with anaerobic digestion to treat an olive mill wastewater (OMW). Firstly, OMW was pre-treated by chemical oxidation in a batch reactor with Fenton's reagent, using a fixed H2O2/COD ratio of 0.20, pH = 3.5 and a H2O2/Fe(2+) molar ratio of 15:1. This advanced oxidation treatment allowed reaching reductions of 17.6 and 82.5% of chemical oxygen demand (COD) and total polyphenols (TP), respectively. Secondly, OMW treatment by anaerobic digestion was performed using previously adapted microorganisms immobilized in Sepiolite. These biological tests were carried out varying the substrate concentration supplied to the reactor and COD conversions from 52 to 74% were obtained. Afterwards, Fenton's reagent followed by anaerobic digestion was applied to OMW treatment. This combined process presented a significant improvement on organic load removal, reaching COD degradations from 64 to 88%. Beyond the pollutant load removal, it was also monitored the yield of methane generated throughout anaerobic experiments. The methane produced ranged from 281 cm(3) to 322 cm(3) of CH4/g COD removed. Additionally, a methane generation kinetic study was performed using the Monod Model. The application of this model allowed observing a kinetic constant increase of the combined process (kFN = 0.036 h(-1)) when compared to the single anaerobic process (kF = 0.017 h(-1)).

Bioaugmentation with an acetate-type fermentation bacterium Acetobacteroides hydrogenigenes improves methane production from corn straw.The effect of bioaugmentation with an acetate-type fermentation bacterium in the phylum Bacteroidetes on the anaerobic digestion of corn straw was evaluated by batch experiments. Acetobacteroides hydrogenigenes is a promising strain for bioaugmentation with relatively high growth rate, hydrogen yields and acetate tolerance, which ferments a broad spectrum of pentoses, hexoses and polyoses mainly into acetate and hydrogen. During corn straw digestion, bioaugmentation with A. hydrogenigenes led to 19-23% increase of the methane yield, with maximum of 258.1 mL/g-corn straw achieved by 10% inoculation (control, 209.3 mL/g-corn straw). Analysis of lignocellulosic composition indicated that A. hydrogenigenes could increase removal rates of cellulose and hemicelluloses in corn straw residue by 12% and 5%, respectively. Further experiment verified that the addition of A. hydrogenigenes could improve the methane yields of methyl cellulose and xylan (models for cellulose and hemicelluloses, respectively) by 16.8% and 7.0%.

Steam explosion pretreatment of wheat straw to improve methane yields: investigation of the degradation kinetics of structural compounds during anaerobic digestion.Wheat straw can serve as a low-cost substrate for energy production without competing with food or feed production. This study investigated the effect of steam explosion pretreatment on the biological methane potential and the degradation kinetics of wheat straw during anaerobic digestion. It was observed that the biological methane potential of the non steam exploded, ground wheat straw (276 l(N) kg VS(-1)) did not significantly differ from the best steam explosion treated sample (286 l(N) kg VS(-1)) which was achieved at a pretreatment temperature of 140°C and a retention time of 60 min. Nevertheless degradation speed was improved by the pretreatment. Furthermore it was observed that compounds resulting from chemical reactions during the pretreatment and classified as pseudo-lignin were also degraded during the anaerobic batch experiments. Based on the rumen simulation technique, a model was developed to characterise the degradation process.

In vitro colonic catabolism of orange juice (poly)phenols.The role of colonic microbiota in the breakdown of hesperetin, naringenin, and ferulic acid, compounds found as glycosides in orange juice, was investigated using an in vitro fermentation model.
Test compounds were incubated with human fecal slurries cultured under anaerobic conditions, and the production of phenolic acid catabolites were monitored by GC-MS and HPLC-MS(2) . Hesperetin was converted to 3-(3'-hydroxy-4'-methoxyphenyl)propionic acid, 3-(3',4'-dihydroxyphenyl)propionic acid, and 3-(3'-hydroxyphenyl)propionic acid while 3-(phenyl)propionic acid was the major end product derived from naringenin. The data obtained are compared to our previously published data on urinary excretion of phenolic and aromatic acids after acute orange juice consumption (Pereira-Caro et al. Am. J. Clin. Nutr. 2014, 100, 1385-1391). Catabolism pathways are proposed for events occurring in the colon and those taking place postabsorption into the circulatory system with particular reference to the excretion of 3-(3'-hydroxy-4'-methoxyphenyl)hydracrylic acid, which is not formed in fecal incubations. Ferulic acid was also degraded by the colonic microflora being converted principally to 3-(3'-methoxy-4'-hydroxyphenyl)propionic acid, a phenolic acid that appears in urine after orange juice consumption.
The study provides novel information on the potential involvement of the colonic microbiota in the overall bioavailability of orange juice (poly)phenols through the production of phenylpropionic acids and subsequent hepatic conversions that lead to hippuric acid and its hydroxylated analogues.

Regression based state space adaptive model of two-phase anaerobic reactor.In this paper, a linear state space model for the two-phase anaerobic reactor system was developed based on historical data. Subsequently, the model was used to predict its future behavior. The state space model developed involved correlation analysis and model development. The model would be updated at every time point when a new data set became available, giving it an "adaptive" feature. The model was then applied to monitor two-phase anaerobic co-digestion of a feed comprising 2 industrial secondary sludges and 2 industrial wastewaters. The case study showed the proposed model was able to provide good predictions of various process parameters. In addition, it also predicted impending process failure and this would have allowed the operator to take necessary measures to prevent or reduce impact of such failure during plant operation.

Effects of ionic strength and ion pairing on (plant-wide) modelling of anaerobic digestion.Plant-wide models of wastewater treatment (such as the Benchmark Simulation Model No. 2 or BSM2) are gaining popularity for use in holistic virtual studies of treatment plant control and operations. The objective of this study is to show the influence of ionic strength (as activity corrections) and ion pairing on modelling of anaerobic digestion processes in such plant-wide models of wastewater treatment. Using the BSM2 as a case study with a number of model variants and cationic load scenarios, this paper presents the effects of an improved physico-chemical description on model predictions and overall plant performance indicators, namely effluent quality index (EQI) and operational cost index (OCI). The acid-base equilibria implemented in the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) are modified to account for non-ideal aqueous-phase chemistry. The model corrects for ionic strength via the Davies approach to consider chemical activities instead of molar concentrations. A speciation sub-routine based on a multi-dimensional Newton-Raphson (NR) iteration method is developed to address algebraic interdependencies. The model also includes ion pairs that play an important role in wastewater treatment. The paper describes: 1) how the anaerobic digester performance is affected by physico-chemical corrections; 2) the effect on pH and the anaerobic digestion products (CO2, CH4 and H2); and, 3) how these variations are propagated from the sludge treatment to the water line. Results at high ionic strength demonstrate that corrections to account for non-ideal conditions lead to significant differences in predicted process performance (up to 18% for effluent quality and 7% for operational cost) but that for pH prediction, activity corrections are more important than ion pairing effects. Both are likely to be required when precipitation is to be modelled.

Kinetic characterization of thermophilic and mesophilic anaerobic digestion for coffee grounds and waste activated sludge.This study was conducted to characterize the kinetics of an anaerobic process (hydrolysis, acetogenesis, acidogenesis and methanogenesis) under thermophilic (55 °C) and mesophilic (35 °C) conditions with coffee grounds and waste activated sludge (WAS) as the substrates. Special focus was given to the kinetics of propionic acid degradation to elucidate the accumulation of VFAs. Under the thermophilic condition, the methane production rate of all substrates (WAS, ground coffee and raw coffee) was about 1.5 times higher than that under the mesophilic condition. However, the effects on methane production of each substrate under the thermophilic condition differed: WAS increased by 35.8-48.2%, raw coffee decreased by 76.3-64.5% and ground coffee decreased by 74.0-57.9%. Based on the maximum reaction rate (Rmax) of each anaerobic stage obtained from the modified Gompertz model, acetogenesis was found to be the rate-limiting step for coffee grounds and WAS. This can be explained by the kinetics of propionate degradation under thermophilic condition in which a long lag-phase (more than 18 days) was observed, although the propionate concentration was only 500 mg/L. Under the mesophilic condition, acidogenesis and hydrolysis were found to be the rate-limiting step for coffee grounds and WAS, respectively. Even though reducing the particle size accelerated the methane production rate of coffee grounds, but did not change the rate-limiting step: acetogenesis in thermophilic and acidogenesis in mesophilic.

Critical comparison of different model structures for the applied simulation of the anaerobic digestion of agricultural energy crops.Different model structures were compared to simulate the characteristic process variables of the anaerobic digestion of maize, sugar beet and grain silage. Depending on the type and number of the required components, it can be shown that in comparison to the complex Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) different simplified model structures can describe the gas production rate, ammonia nitrogen and acetate concentration or pH value equally well. Since the reduction of the predominantly fast kinetics of the methanogenesis, acetogenesis or acidogenesis will only have little effect on the simulation of the specific gas production, it can be proven that the hydrolysis is the rate-limiting step during the uninhibited anaerobic digestion of complex particulate substrates. However, the stoichiometric comparison reveals that the model protein gelatine is not suitable for a representative characterization of agricultural energy crops.

Hydrothermal carbonisation of sewage sludge: effect of process conditions on product characteristics and methane production.Hydrothermal carbonisation of primary sewage sludge was carried out using a batch reactor. The effect of temperature and reaction time on the characteristics of solid (hydrochar), liquid and gas products, and the conditions leading to optimal hydrochar characteristics were investigated. The amount of carbon retained in hydrochars decreased as temperature and time increased with carbon retentions of 64-77% at 140 and 160°C, and 50-62% at 180 and 200°C. Increasing temperature and treatment time increased the energy content of the hydrochar from 17 to 19 MJ/kg but reduced its energy yield from 88% to 68%. Maillard reaction products were identified in the liquid fractions following carbonisations at 180 and 200°C. Theoretical estimates of the methane yields resulting from the anaerobic digestion of the liquid by-products are also presented and optimal reaction conditions to maximise these identified.

The effects of initial substrate concentration, C/N ratio, and temperature on solid-state anaerobic digestion from composting rice straw.This study investigated the possibilities of improving the biogasification from solid-state anaerobic digestion (SS-AD) of composting rice straw (RS) based on the optimized digestion temperature, initial substrate concentration (ISC) and C/N ratio. RS compounds, such as lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose, were significantly degraded after composting. A significant interactive effect of temperature, ISC and C/N ratio was found on the biogasification of SS-AD of composting RS, and a maximum biogas production was achieved at 35.6°C, with a 20% ISC and a C/N ratio of 29.6:1. The verification experiment confirmed the optimization results. High-throughput sequencing analysis indicated that microbial communities in the SS-AD mainly consist of Methanobacteria, Bacteroidia, Clostridia, Betaproteobacteria, and Gammaproteobacteria. A dominant Methanobacteria was shifted from Methanobacterium to Methanoculleus during the SS-AD process. This study provides novel information about the interdependent effects and microbial behavior of AD.

Performance optimization and validation of ADM1 simulations under anaerobic thermophilic conditions.In this study, two experimental sets of data each involving two thermophilic anaerobic digesters treating food waste, were simulated using the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1). A sensitivity analysis was conducted, using both data sets of one digester, for parameter optimization based on five measured performance indicators: methane generation, pH, acetate, total COD, ammonia, and an equally weighted combination of the five indicators. The simulation results revealed that while optimization with respect to methane alone, a commonly adopted approach, succeeded in simulating methane experimental results, it predicted other intermediary outputs less accurately. On the other hand, the multi-objective optimization has the advantage of providing better results than methane optimization despite not capturing the intermediary output. The results from the parameter optimization were validated upon their independent application on the data sets of the second digester.

Mathematical modelling of methanogenic reactor start-up: Importance of volatile fatty acids degrading population.Development of balanced community of microorganisms is one of the obligatory for stable anaerobic digestion. Application of mathematical models might be helpful in development of reliable procedures during the process start-up period. Yet, the accuracy of forecast depends on the quality of input and parameters. In this study, the specific anaerobic activity (SAA) tests were applied in order to estimate microbial community structure. Obtained data was applied as input conditions for mathematical model of anaerobic digestion. The initial values of variables describing the amount of acetate and propionate utilizing microorganisms could be calculated on the basis of SAA results. The modelling based on those optimized variables could successfully reproduce the behavior of a real system during the continuous fermentation.

Innovative ammonia stripping with an electrolyzed water system as pretreatment of thermally hydrolyzed wasted sludge for anaerobic digestion.In this study, the anaerobic digestion of thermally hydrolyzed wasted sludge (THWS) with a high concentration of ammonia was carried out through combining with an ammonia stripping and an electrolyzed water system (EWS). The EWS produced acidic water (pH 2-3) at the anode and alkaline water (pH 11-12) at the cathode with an electro-diaphragm between the electrodes that could be applied to ammonia stripping. The ammonia stripping efficiency was strongly dependent on the pH and aeration rate, and the ammonium ion removal rate followed pseudo-first-order kinetics. From the BMP test, the methane yield of THWS after ammonia stripping using the EWS was 2.8 times higher than that of the control process (raw THWS without ammonia stripping). Furthermore, both methane yield and ammonium removal efficiency were higher in this study than in previous studies. Since ammonia stripping with the EWS does not require any chemicals for pH control, no precipitated sludge is produced and anaerobic microorganisms are not inhibited by cations. Therefore, ammonia stripping using the EWS could be an effective method for digestion of wastewater with a high concentration of ammonium nitrogen.

Biochemical methane potential prediction of plant biomasses: Comparing chemical composition versus near infrared methods and linear versus non-linear models.The reliability of different models to predict the biochemical methane potential (BMP) of various plant biomasses using a multispecies dataset was compared. The most reliable prediction models of the BMP were those based on the near infrared (NIR) spectrum compared to those based on the chemical composition. The NIR predictions of local (specific regression and non-linear) models were able to estimate quantitatively, rapidly, cheaply and easily the BMP. Such a model could be further used for biomethanation plant management and optimization. The predictions of non-linear models were more reliable compared to those of linear models. The presentation form (green-dried, silage-dried and silage-wet form) of biomasses to the NIR spectrometer did not influence the performances of the NIR prediction models. The accuracy of the BMP method should be improved to enhance further the BMP prediction models.

Application of Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 for simulating anaerobic mesophilic sludge digestion.Improving anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge by monitoring common indicators such as volatile fatty acids (VFAs), gas composition and pH is a suitable solution for better sludge management. Modeling is an important tool to assess and to predict process performance. The present study focuses on the application of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) to simulate the dynamic behavior of a reactor fed with sewage sludge under mesophilic conditions. Parametric sensitivity analysis is used to select the most sensitive ADM1 parameters for estimation using a numerical procedure while other parameters are applied without any modification to the original values presented in the ADM1 report. The results indicate that the ADM1 model after parameter estimation was able to predict the experimental results of effluent acetate, propionate, composites and biogas flows and pH with reasonable accuracy. The simulation of the effect of organic shock loading clearly showed that an organic shock loading rate above of 35kg/m(3) day affects the performance of the reactor. The results demonstrate that simulations can be helpful to support decisions on predicting the anaerobic digestion process of sewage sludge.

Kinetic modelling of anaerobic hydrolysis of solid wastes, including disintegration processes.A methodology to estimate disintegration and hydrolysis kinetic parameters of solid wastes and validate an ADM1-based anaerobic co-digestion model is presented. Kinetic parameters of the model were calibrated from batch reactor experiments treating individually fruit and vegetable wastes (among other residues) following a new protocol for batch tests. In addition, decoupled disintegration kinetics for readily and slowly biodegradable fractions of solid wastes was considered. Calibrated parameters from batch assays of individual substrates were used to validate the model for a semi-continuous co-digestion operation treating simultaneously 5 fruit and vegetable wastes. The semi-continuous experiment was carried out in a lab-scale CSTR reactor for 15 weeks at organic loading rate ranging between 2.0 and 4.7 gVS/Ld. The model (built in Matlab/Simulink) fit to a large extent the experimental results in both batch and semi-continuous mode and served as a powerful tool to simulate the digestion or co-digestion of solid wastes.

Assessment of percolation through a solid leach bed in dry batch anaerobic digestion processes.This work aimed at assessing water percolation through a solid cow manure leach bed in dry batch AD processes. A laboratory-scale percolation column and an experimental methodology were set up. Water behaviour was modelled by a double porosity medium approach. An experimental procedure was proposed to determine the main hydrodynamic parameters of the multiphase flow model: the porosity, the permeability and the term for water exchange from macro- to micro-porosity. Micro- and macro-porosity values ranged from 0.42 to 0.70 m(3) m(-3) and 0.18 to 0.50 m(3) m(-3). Intrinsic permeability values for solid cow manure ranged from 5.55·10(-11) to 4.75·10(-9) m(2). The term for water exchange was computed using a 2nd order model. The CFD tool developed was used to simulate successive percolation and drainage operations. These results will be used to design leachate recirculation strategies and predict biogas production in full-scale dry AD batch processes.

Influence of different substrates on the performance of a two-stage high pressure anaerobic digestion system.The two-stage autogenerative high-pressure digestion technique is a novel and promising approach for the production of gaseous fuels or upgraded biogas. This new technique is described in the patent DE 10 2011 015415 A1 and integrates biogas production, its upgrading and pressure boosting in one process. Anaerobic digestion under elevated pressure conditions leads to decreasing pH-values in the digestate due to the augmented formation of carboxylic acid. Model calculations carried out to evaluate the two-stage design showed that the pH-value in the pressurized anaerobic filter has a major influence on the methane content of the biogas produced. Within this study, the influence of the nitrogen content as one of the most important buffering substances on the performance of the system has been tested. The results show that higher NH4 contents lead to higher pH-values in the digester and as a consequence to higher methane contents.

Performance and kinetic study of semi-dry thermophilic anaerobic digestion of organic fraction of municipal solid waste.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) is promoted as an energy source and waste disposal. In this study semi dry anaerobic digestion of organic solid wastes was conducted for 45 days in a lab-scale batch experiment for total solid concentration of 100g/L for investigating the start-up performances under thermophilic condition (50 °C). The performance of the reactor was evaluated by measuring the daily biogas production and calculating the degradation of total solids and the total volatile solids. The biogas yield at the end of the digestion was 52.9L/kg VS (volatile solid) for the total solid (TS) concentration of 100g/L. About 66.7% of the volatile solid degradation was obtained during the digestion. A first order model based on the availability of substrate as the limiting factor was used to perform the kinetic studies of batch anaerobic digestion system. The value of reaction rate constant, k, obtained was 0.0249 day(-1).

Effects of broad-spectrum antibiotics on the metabolism and pharmacokinetics of ginsenoside Rb1: a study on rats׳ gut microflora influenced by lincomycin.Ginsenoside Rb1 is a biologically active compound that is abundant in ginseng (Panax ginseng). It has been reported that ginsenosides could be metabolized by enzymes and bacteria in the large intestine. In this study, the effects of intestinal bacteria on the metabolism and pharmacokinetics of ginsenoside Rb1 were investigated using lincomycin-treated rat models (4.8g/kg and 0.12g/kg). Specifically, ginsenoside Rb1 was incubated anaerobically with rat fecal suspensions obtained from the control and two model groups at 0, 6, 12, 24, and 48h. Ginsenoside Rb1 and its metabolites were determined by HPLC analysis. Compared with the normal rats case where Rd and compound K were detected in the incubation mixture, ginsenoside Rd and F2 were found in the 0.12g/kg group, but only Rd was found in the 4.8g/kg group. Moreover, fecal β-glucosidase activity was significantly lower in lincomycin-treated (0.12g/kg and 4.8g/kg) model rats. After administration of Rb1 to rats, ginsenoside Rb1 and its metabolites Rd, Rg3, and Rh2 were detectable in normal rat urine, whereas none was detected in the two model groups. The plasma concentration-time Rb1 were compared between model groups and normal rats. The systemic exposure as evidenced by the AUC and T1/2 values was significantly higher in model groups than in normal rats. Our findings demonstrated that consumption of lincomycin could lead to the formation of specific metabolites and pharmacokinetic changes of ginsenoside Rb1 in the gut, attributed to alterations in metabolic activities of intestinal bacteria. Our results also suggested that patients who want to use intestinal bacteria-metabolized drugs such as ginseng (Panax ginseng) should pay attention to the profile of intestinal bacteria or potential drug interactions to ensure therapeutic efficacy.

Effects of crop maturity and size reduction on digestibility and methane yield of dedicated energy crop.The compositional changes of Napier grass (Pennisetum purpureum) with respect to maturity (namely, 2, 4, 6, and 8 months age), and its effect on anaerobic digestion was examined under three sieving regimes (6, 10, and 20mm). Significant changes in plant composition were observed with crop maturity. The highest methane yields of 219±4.9 NmL/g VS added was found for biomass harvested at 2 months old compared to 189±7.3, 131±4.7, and 104±2.3 NmL of methane/g VS added, respectively, for 4, 6, and 8 months old biomass. For all ages, feedstock passed through a 6mm sieve resulted in significantly higher methane yields compared to biomass passed through 10 and 20mm sieves. Additionally, 2 months old biomass exhibited the highest digestibility of cellulose and hemicellulose, whereas digestibility of cellulose and hemicellulose were lowest for the biomass harvested at 8 months of maturity.

Influence of initial pH on thermophilic anaerobic co-digestion of swine manure and maize stalk.The contradictions between the increasing energy demand and decreasing fossil fuels are making the use of renewable energy the key to the sustainable development of energy in the future. Biogas, a renewable clean energy, can be obtained by the anaerobic fermentation of manure waste and agricultural straw. This study examined the initial pH value had obvious effect on methane production and the process in the thermophilic anaerobic co-digestion. Five different initial pH levels with three different manure ratios were tested. All digesters in different initial pH showed a diverse methane production after 35 days. The VFA/alkalinity ratio of the optimum reaction condition for methanogens activity was in the range of 0.1-0.3 and the optimal condition that at the 70% dung ratio and initial pH 6.81, was expected to achieve maximum total biogas production (146.32 mL/g VS).

Modulation of small intestinal homeostasis along with its microflora during acclimatization at simulated hypobaric hypoxia.At high altitude (HA) hypobaric hypoxic environment manifested several pathophysiological consequences of which gastrointestinal (GI) disorder are very common phenomena. To explore the most possible clue behind this disorder intestinal flora, the major player of the GI functions, were subjected following simulated hypobaric hypoxic treatment in model animal. For this, male albino rats were exposed to 55 kPa (approximately 4872.9 m) air pressure consecutively for 30 days for 8 h/day and its small intestinal microflora, their secreted digestive enzymes and stress induced marker protein were investigated of the luminal epithelia. It was observed that population density of total aerobes significantly decreased, but the quantity of total anaerobes and Escherichia coli increased significantly after 30 days of hypoxic stress. The population density of strict anaerobes like Bifidobacterium sp., Bacteroides sp. and Lactobacillus sp. and obligate anaerobes like Clostridium perfringens and Peptostreptococcus sp. were expanded along with their positive growth direction index (GDI). In relation to the huge multiplication of anaerobes the amount of gas formation as well as content of IgA and IgG increased in duration dependent manner. The activity of some luminal enzymes from microbial origin like a-amylase, gluco-amylase, proteinase, alkaline phosphatase and beta-glucuronidase were also elevated in hypoxic condition. Besides, hypoxia induced in formation of malondialdehyde along with significant attenuation of catalase, glutathione peroxidase, superoxide dismutase activity and lowered GSH/GSSG pool in the intestinal epithelia. Histological study revealed disruption of intestinal epithelial barrier with higher infiltration of lymphocytes in lamina propia and atrophic structure. It can be concluded that hypoxia at HA modified GI microbial imprint and subsequently causes epithelial barrier dysfunction which may relate to the small intestinal dysfunction at HA.

Optimization of the treatment cycle of pressed-off leachate produced in a facility processing the organic fraction of municipal solid waste.The paper investigates, at a laboratory scale, the applicability of anaerobic digestion for the treatment of pressed-off leachate produced in a biomechanical treatment plant for municipal solid waste. Batch tests show that the anaerobic process proceeds smoothly and produces about 10,000 mL of methane per litre of treated leachate. The process is characterized by a lag phase lasting about 30 days, and is completed in about 2 months. Chemical oxygen demand (COD) and volatile fatty acids monitoring allows studying process kinetics that are modelled through a triple linear expression. Physical and biological treatments are also investigated to reduce the residual organic charge of the produced digestate. The best performances are obtained via aerobic degradation followed by assisted sedimentation. This cycle reduces the residual COD of about 85%, and allows the correct disposal of the final waste stream.

Effect of different pH-values on process parameters in two-phase anaerobic digestion of high-solid substrates.In many publications, primary fermentation is described as a limiting step in the anaerobic digestion of fibre-rich biomass [Eastman JA, Ferguson JF. Solubilization of particulacte carbon during the anaerobic digeston. J WPCF. 1981;53:352-366; Noike T, Endo G, Chang J, Yaguchi J, Matsumoto J. Characteristics of carbohydrate degradation and the rate-limiting step in anaerobic digestion. Biotechnol Bioeng. 1985;27:1482-1489; Arntz HJ, Stoppok E, Buchholz K. Anaerobic hydroysis of beet pulp-discontiniuous experiments. Biotechnol Lett. 1985;7:113-118]. The microorganisms of the primary fermentation process differ widely from the methanogenic microorganisms [Pohland FG, Ghosh S. Developments in anaerobic stabilization of organic wastes-the two-phase concept. Environ Lett. 1971;1:255-266]. To optimize the biogas process, a separation in two phases is suggested by many authors [Fox P, Pohland GK. Anaerobic treatment applications and fundamentals: substrate specificity during phase separation. Water Environ Res. 1994;66:716-724; Cohen A, Zoetemeyer RJ, van Deursen A, van Andel JG. Anaerobic digestion of glucose with separated acid production and methane formation. Water Res. 1979;13:571-580]. To carry out the examination, a two-phase laboratory-scale biogas plant was established, with a physical phase separation. In previous studies, the regulation of the pH-value during the acid formation was usually carried out by the addition of sodium hydroxide [Cohen A, Zoetemeyer RJ, van Deursen A, van Andel JG. Anaerobic digestion of glucose with separated acid production and methane formation. Water Res. 1979;13:571-580; Ueno Y, Tatara M, Fukui H, Makiuchi T, Goto M, Sode K. Production of hydrogen and methane from organic solid wastes by phase separation of anaerobic process. Bioresour Technol. 2007;98:1861-1865; Zoetemeyer RJ, van den Heuvel JC, Cohen A. pH influence on acidogenic dissimilation of glucose in an anaerobic digestor. Water Res. 1982;16:303-311]. A new technology without the use of additives was developed in which the pH-regulation is executed by the pH-dependent recycling of effluent from the anaerobic filter into the acidification reactor. During this investigation, the influence of the different target pH-values (5.5, 6.0, 7.0 and 7.5) on the degradation rate, the gas composition and the methane yield of the substrate maize silage was determined. With an increase in the target pH-value from 5.5 to 7.5, the acetic acid equivalent decreased by 88.1% and the chemical oxygen demand-concentration by 18.3% in the hydrolysate. In response, there was a 58% increase in the specific methane yield of the overall system. Contrary to earlier studies, a marked increase in biogas production and in substrate degradation was determined with increasing pH-values. However, these led to a successive approximation of a single-phase process. Based on these results, pH-values above 7.0 seem to be favourable for the digestion of fibre-rich substrates.

Simplified mechanistic model for the two-stage anaerobic degradation of sewage sludge.Two-phase anaerobic systems are being increasingly implemented for the treatment of both sewage sludge and organic fraction of municipal solid waste. Despite the good amount of mathematical models in anaerobic digestion, few have been applied in two-phase systems. In this study, a three-reaction mechanistic model has been developed, implemented and validated by using experimental data from a long-term anaerobic two-phase (TPAD) digester treating sewage sludge. A sensitivity analysis shows that the most influential parameters of the model are the ones related to the hydrolysis reaction and the activity of methanogens in the thermophilic reactor. The calibration procedure highlights a noticeable growth rate of the thermophilic methanogens throughout the evaluation period. Overall, all the measured variables are properly predicted by the model during both the calibration and the cross-validation periods. The model's representation of the organic matter behaviour is quite good. The most important disagreements are observed for the biogas production especially during the validation period. The whole application procedure underlines the ability of the model to properly predict the behaviour of this bioprocess.

Superresolution imaging captures carbohydrate utilization dynamics in human gut symbionts.Gut microbes play a key role in human health and nutrition by catabolizing a wide variety of glycans via enzymatic activities that are not encoded in the human genome. The ability to recognize and process carbohydrates strongly influences the structure of the gut microbial community. While the effects of diet on the microbiota are well documented, little is known about the molecular processes driving metabolism. To provide mechanistic insight into carbohydrate catabolism in gut symbionts, we studied starch processing in real time in the model Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron starch utilization system (Sus) by single-molecule fluorescence. Although previous studies have explored Sus protein structure and function, the transient interactions, assembly, and collaboration of these outer membrane proteins have not yet been elucidated in live cells. Our live-cell superresolution imaging reveals that the polymeric starch substrate dynamically recruits Sus proteins, serving as an external scaffold for bacterial membrane assembly of the Sus complex, which may promote efficient capturing and degradation of starch. Furthermore, by simultaneously localizing multiple Sus outer membrane proteins on the B. thetaiotaomicron cell surface, we have characterized the dynamics and stoichiometry of starch-induced Sus complex assembly on the molecular scale. Finally, based on Sus protein knockout strains, we have discerned the mechanism of starch-induced Sus complex assembly in live anaerobic cells with nanometer-scale resolution. Our insights into the starch-induced outer membrane protein assembly central to this conserved nutrient uptake mechanism pave the way for the development of dietary or pharmaceutical therapies to control Bacteroidetes in the intestinal tract to enhance human health and treat disease.
In this study, we used nanometer-scale superresolution imaging to reveal dynamic interactions between the proteins involved in starch processing by the prominent human gut symbiont Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron in real time in live cells. These results represent the first working model of starch utilization system (Sus) complex assembly and function during glycan catabolism and are likely to describe aspects of how other Sus-like systems function in human gut Bacteroidetes. Our results provide unique mechanistic insights into a glycan catabolism strategy that is prevalent within the human gut microbial community. Proper understanding of this conserved nutrient uptake mechanism is essential for the development of dietary or pharmaceutical therapies to control intestinal tract microbial populations, to enhance human health, and to treat disease.

Substantial decreases in the number and diversity of microbiota during chemotherapy-induced gastrointestinal mucositis in a rat model.Earlier, we showed in acute myeloid leukemia (AML) patients that the microbiota changes dramatically during anticancer treatment, coinciding with gastrointestinal mucositis: The commensal anaerobic populations reduce in favor of potential pathogens. Therefore, interventions targeting the microbiota during mucositis might be interesting but can better be tested in animals than in vulnerable mucositis patients. Here, we aimed to study the potential microbial changes during methotrexate (MTX)-induced gastrointestinal mucositis in a well-established rat model and to study whether this model can be used for future microbial intervention studies.
After injection with MTX or saline (day 0), rats were sacrificed between days 2 and 11. Plasma citrulline level, jejunal histology, and the number and diversity of intestinal bacteria in feces (using fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH)) were determined.
Mucositis was most severe on day 4 when food intake, plasma citrulline, and villus length were the lowest, compared with controls (P < 0.0125). At the same time, MTX-treated rats showed an overall decrease (705-fold) in most bacteria (using a universal probe), compared with controls (P < 0.125). Reduced bacterial presence was related with the presence of diarrhea and a reduced villus length (rho = 0.38, P < 0.05). At day 4, there was an absolute and relative decrease of anaerobes (13-fold and -58 %, respectively) and streptococci (296-fold and -1 %, respectively) but a relative increase of Bacteroides (+49 %), compared with controls (P < 0.125).
In the mucositis rat model, we found substantial decreases in the number and diversity of microbiota, resembling earlier findings in humans. The model therefore seems well suited to study the effects of different microbial interventions on mucositis, prior to performing human studies.

CFD simulation of vertical linear motion mixing in anaerobic digester tanks.Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) was used to simulate the mixing characteristics of a small circular anaerobic digester tank (diameter 6 m) equipped sequentially with 13 different plunger type vertical linear motion mixers and two different type internal draft-tube mixers. Rates of mixing of step injection of tracers were calculated from which active volume (AV) and hydraulic retention time (HRT) could be calculated. Washout characteristics were compared to analytic formulae to estimate any presence of partial mixing, dead volume, short-circuiting, or piston flow. Active volumes were also estimated based on tank regions that exceeded minimum velocity criteria. The mixers were ranked based on an ad hoc criteria related to the ratio of AV to unit power (UP) or AV/UP. The best plunger mixers were found to behave about the same as the conventional draft-tube mixers of similar UP.

Continuous mesophilic anaerobic digestion of manure and rape oilcake - Experimental and modelling study.Rape oilcake is a by-product formed after the removal of oil from rapeseed. Due to the high content of organic matter rape oilcake seems a good substrate for anaerobic digestion when it cannot be used as fodder. The aim of this work was to optimise the parameters used in a mathematical model of anaerobic digestion for rapeseed oilcake and cattle manure. The composition of these substrates was determined in order to estimate model inputs. Optimised kinetic constants of hydrolysis and decomposition for oilcake (Kdis=0.77, KhydCH=0.55, khydPr=0.57, khydLi=0.30) were estimated based on batch fermentation. The accuracy of the model with improved input parameters was confirmed by continuous fermentation. The average concentration of methane in biogas was about 50%. The biogas production efficiency from organic matter (defined as volatile solids) was 0.42m(3)kg(-1) with an organic substrate loading rate equal to 3.18 kgm(-3)d(-1). The fermentation process demonstrated good stability and efficiency. The accuracy of the optimised model seems sufficient for use in modelling of a full scale process.

Interval versus continuous training with identical workload: physiological and aerobic capacity adaptations.The interval model training has been more recommended to promote aerobic adaptations due to recovery period that enables the execution of elevated intensity and as consequence, higher workload in relation to continuous training. However, the physiological and aerobic capacity adaptations in interval training with identical workload to continuous are still uncertain. The purpose was to characterize the effects of chronic and acute biomarkers adaptations and aerobic capacity in interval and continuous protocols with equivalent load. Fifty Wistar rats were divided in three groups: Continuous training (GTC), interval training (GTI) and control (CG). The running training lasted 8 weeks (wk) and was based at Anaerobic Threshold (AT) velocity. GTI showed glycogen super-compensation (mg/100 mg) 48 h after training session in relation to CG and GTC (GTI red gastrocnemius (RG)=1.41+/-0.16; GTI white gastrocnemius (WG)=1.78+/-0.20; GTI soleus (S)=0.26+/-0.01; GTI liver (L)=2.72+/-0.36; GTC RG=0.42+/-0.17; GTC WG=0.54+/-0.22; GTC S=0.100+/-0.01; GTC L=1.12+/-0.24; CG RG=0.32+/-0.05; CG WG=0.65+/-0.17; CG S=0.14+/-0.01; CG L=2.28+/-0.33). The volume performed by GTI was higher than GTC. The aerobic capacity reduced 11 % after experimental period in GTC when compared to GTI, but this change was insignificant (19.6+/-5.4 m/min; 17.7+/-2.5 m/min, effect size = 0.59). Free fatty acids and glucose concentration did not show statistical differences among the groups. Corticosterone concentration increased in acute condition for GTI and GTC. Testosterone concentration reduced 71 % in GTC immediately after the exercise in comparison to CG. The GTI allowed positive adaptations when compared to GTC in relation to: glycogen super-compensation, training volume performed and anabolic condition. However, the GTI not improved the aerobic performance.

Persistence and toxin production by Clostridium difficile within human intestinal organoids result in disruption of epithelial paracellular barrier function.Clostridium difficile is the leading cause of infectious nosocomial diarrhea. The pathogenesis of C. difficile infection (CDI) results from the interactions between the pathogen, intestinal epithelium, host immune system, and gastrointestinal microbiota. Previous studies of the host-pathogen interaction in CDI have utilized either simple cell monolayers or in vivo models. While much has been learned by utilizing these approaches, little is known about the direct interaction of the bacterium with a complex host epithelium. Here, we asked if human intestinal organoids (HIOs), which are derived from pluripotent stem cells and demonstrate small intestinal morphology and physiology, could be used to study the pathogenesis of the obligate anaerobe C. difficile. Vegetative C. difficile, microinjected into the lumen of HIOs, persisted in a viable state for up to 12 h. Upon colonization with C. difficile VPI 10463, the HIO epithelium is markedly disrupted, resulting in the loss of paracellular barrier function. Since similar effects were not observed when HIOs were colonized with the nontoxigenic C. difficile strain F200, we directly tested the role of toxin using TcdA and TcdB purified from VPI 10463. We show that the injection of TcdA replicates the disruption of the epithelial barrier function and structure observed in HIOs colonized with viable C. difficile.

Modified Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 for dry and semi-dry anaerobic digestion of solid organic waste.The role of total solids (TS) content in anaerobic digestion of selected complex organic matter, e.g. rice straw and food waste, was investigated. A range of TS from wet (4.5%) to dry (23%) was evaluated. A modified version of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 for a complex organic substrate is proposed to take into account the effect of the TS content on anaerobic digestion. A linear function that correlates the kinetic constants of three specific processes (i.e. disintegration, acetate and propionate up-take) was included in the model. Results of biomethanation and volatile fatty acids production tests were used to calibrate the proposed model. Model simulations showed a good agreement between numerical and observed data.

Evaluation of slow pyrolyzed wood and rice husks biochar for adsorption of ammonium nitrogen from piggery manure anaerobic digestate slurry.Due to its high adsorption capacity, the use of biochar to capture excess nutrients from wastewater has become a central focus in environmental remediation studies. In this study, its potential use in adsorption and removal of ammonium in piggery manure anaerobic digestate slurry was investigated. The adsorbed amount of NH4(+)-N (mg·g(-1)) and removal percentage as a function of adsorbent mass in solution, adsorbent particle size, NH4(+)-N concentration in the effluent, contact time, pH and temperature were quantified in batch equilibrium and kinetics experiments. The maximum NH4(+)-N adsorption from slurry at 1400 mgN·L(-1) was 44.64 ± 0.602 mg·g(-1) and 39.8 ± 0.54 mg·g(-1) for wood and rice husk biochar, respectively. For both biochars, adsorption increased with increase in contact time, temperature, pH and NH4(+)-N concentration but it decreased with increase in biochar particle size. Furthermore, the sorption process was endothermic and followed Langmuir (R(2)=0.995 and 0.998) and Pseudo-second order kinetic models (R(2)=0.998 and 0.999). Based on the removal amounts, we concluded that rice husk and wood biochar have potential to adsorb NH4(+)-N from piggery manure anaerobic digestate slurry, and thus can be used as nutrient filters prior to discharge into water streams.

Predicting the methane yield of lignocellulosic biomass in mesophilic solid-state anaerobic digestion based on feedstock characteristics and process parameters.In this study, multiple linear regression (MLR) and artificial neural network (ANN) models were explored and validated to predict the methane yield of lignocellulosic biomass in mesophilic solid-state anaerobic digestion (SS-AD) based on the feedstock characteristics and process parameters. Out of the eleven factors analyzed in this study, the inoculation size (F/E ratio), and the contents of lignin, cellulose, and extractives in the feedstock were found to be essential in accurately determining the 30-day cumulative methane yield. The interaction between F/E ratio and lignin content was also found to be significant. MLR and ANN models were calibrated and validated with different sets of data from literature, and both methods were able to satisfactorily predict methane yields of SS-AD, with the lowest standard error for prediction obtained by an ANN model. The models developed in this study can provide guidance for future feedstock evaluation and process optimization in SS-AD.

Optimisation of substrate blends in anaerobic co-digestion using adaptive linear programming.Anaerobic co-digestion of multiple substrates has the potential to enhance biogas productivity by making use of the complementary characteristics of different substrates. A blending strategy based on a linear programming optimisation method is proposed aiming at maximising COD conversion into methane, but simultaneously maintaining a digestate and biogas quality. The method incorporates experimental and heuristic information to define the objective function and the linear restrictions. The active constraints are continuously adapted (by relaxing the restriction boundaries) such that further optimisations in terms of methane productivity can be achieved. The feasibility of the blends calculated with this methodology was previously tested and accurately predicted with an ADM1-based co-digestion model. This was validated in a continuously operated pilot plant, treating for several months different mixtures of glycerine, gelatine and pig manure at organic loading rates from 1.50 to 4.93 gCOD/Ld and hydraulic retention times between 32 and 40 days at mesophilic conditions.

Intra-abdominal hypertension--an experimental study of early effects on intra-abdominal metabolism.The main aim of this experimental study was to investigate the early effects of intra-abdominal hypertension (IAH) on intra-abdominal metabolism and intestinal mucosal blood flow to evaluate whether metabolites can serve as markers for organ dysfunction during IAH.
A swine model was used, and the animals were anesthetized and ventilated. Fifteen animals were subjected to IAH of 30 mm Hg for 4 hr by carbon dioxide insufflation. Seven animals served as controls. Hemodynamic data, arterial blood samples, and urine output were analyzed. Intraluminal laser Doppler flowmetry measured intestinal mucosal blood flow. Glucose, glycerol, lactate, and pyruvate concentrations and lactate-to-pyruvate (l/p) ratio were measured intraperitoneally and intramurally in the small intestine and rectum using microdialysis.
IAH lowered the abdominal perfusion pressure by 12-18 mm Hg, reduced the intestinal mucosal blood flow by 45-63%, and decreased urine output by 50-80%. In the intervention group, glycerol concentrations increased at all locations, pyruvate concentrations decreased, and the l/p ratio increased intraperitoneally and intramurally in the small intestine. Control animals remained metabolically stable. Glucose and lactate concentrations were only slightly affected or unchanged in both the groups.
IAH reduces intestinal blood flow and urinary output and causes early metabolic changes, indicating a discrete shift toward anaerobic metabolism. Intraperitoneal microdialysis may be useful in the early detection of impaired organ dysfunction with metabolic consequences in IAH and abdominal compartment syndrome.

Effect of the chlortetracycline addition method on methane production from the anaerobic digestion of swine wastewater.Effects of antibiotic residues on methane production in anaerobic digestion are commonly studied using the following two antibiotic addition methods: (1) adding manure from animals that consume a diet containing antibiotics, and (2) adding antibiotic-free animal manure spiked with antibiotics. This study used chlortetracycline (CTC) as a model antibiotic to examine the effects of the antibiotic addition method on methane production in anaerobic digestion under two different swine wastewater concentrations (0.55 and 0.22mg CTC/g dry manure). The results showed that CTC degradation rate in which manure was directly added at 0.55mg CTC/g (HSPIKE treatment) was lower than the control values and the rest of the treatment groups. Methane production from the HSPIKE treatment was reduced (p<0.05) by 12% during the whole experimental period and 15% during the first 7days. The treatments had no significant effect on the pH and chemical oxygen demand value of the digesters, and the total nitrogen of the 0.55mg CTC/kg manure collected from mediated swine was significantly higher than the other values. Therefore, different methane production under different antibiotic addition methods might be explained by the microbial activity and the concentrations of antibiotic intermediate products and metabolites. Because the primary entry route of veterinary antibiotics into an anaerobic digester is by contaminated animal manure, the most appropriate method for studying antibiotic residue effects on methane production may be using manure from animals that are given a particular antibiotic, rather than adding the antibiotic directly to the anaerobic digester.

Preparation of volatile fatty acid (VFA) calcium salts by anaerobic digestion of glucose.Many potentially useful intermediates such as hydrogen and volatile fatty acids (VFAs) are formed during the complex anaerobic digestion processes that produce methane from biomass. This study recovers VFAs from an anaerobic digester by a combination of gas stripping and absorption with calcium carbonate slurry. Glucose was used as the model substrate because it is readily available, inexpensive, and easily digested. Sludge from a meatworks anaerobic digester produced methane and carbon dioxide (and sometimes a small amount of hydrogen) when batch-fed with glucose. Conditioning the neutral anaerobic sludge to an acidic pH (below 4.8) was achieved using repeated 1 g L(-1) doses of glucose. After conditioning, mainly VFAs and hydrogen were produced. The intermediate VFAs could be stripped using headspace gas. In subsequent fed-batch digestion/stripping cycles, the pH decreased when glucose was added and then increased when the VFA was gas stripped. The predominant acids formed at low pH values were lactic, butyric, and acetic acids. Lactic acid was converted to VFAs during stripping. The VFA calcium salts recovered were 80% butyrate and 20% acetate with minor quantities of propionate and valerate.

Oxygen transport is not compromised at high temperature in pythons.To evaluate whether the 'oxygen and capacity limited thermal tolerance' model (OCLTT) applies to an air-breathing ectothermic vertebrate, we measured oxygen uptake (V̇(O₂)), cardiac performance and arterial blood gases during a progressive rise of temperature from 30 to 40°C in the snake Python regius. V̇(O₂) of fasting snakes increased exponentially with temperature whereas V̇(O₂) of digesting snakes at high temperatures plateaued at a level 3- to 4-fold above fasting. The high and sustained aerobic metabolism over the entire temperature range was supported by pronounced tachycardia at all temperatures, and both fasting and digesting snakes maintained a normal acid-base balance without any indication of anaerobic metabolism. All snakes also maintained high arterial PO2, even at temperatures close to the upper lethal temperature. Thus, there is no evidence of a reduced capacity for oxygen transport at high temperatures in either fasting or digesting snakes, suggesting that the upper thermal tolerance of this species is limited by other factors.

Epithelial IL-22RA1-mediated fucosylation promotes intestinal colonization resistance to an opportunistic pathogen.Our intestinal microbiota harbors a diverse microbial community, often containing opportunistic bacteria with virulence potential. However, mutualistic host-microbial interactions prevent disease by opportunistic pathogens through poorly understood mechanisms. We show that the epithelial interleukin-22 receptor IL-22RA1 protects against lethal Citrobacter rodentium infection and chemical-induced colitis by promoting colonization resistance against an intestinal opportunistic bacterium, Enterococcus faecalis. Susceptibility of Il22ra1(-/-) mice to C. rodentium was associated with preferential expansion and epithelial translocation of pathogenic E. faecalis during severe microbial dysbiosis and was ameloriated with antibiotics active against E. faecalis. RNA sequencing analyses of primary colonic organoids showed that IL-22RA1 signaling promotes intestinal fucosylation via induction of the fucosyltransferase Fut2. Additionally, administration of fucosylated oligosaccharides to C. rodentium-challenged Il22ra1(-/-) mice attenuated infection and promoted E. faecalis colonization resistance by restoring the diversity of anaerobic commensal symbionts. These results support a model whereby IL-22RA1 enhances host-microbiota mutualism to limit detrimental overcolonization by opportunistic pathogens.

Escherichia coli persistence kinetics in dairy manure at moderate, mesophilic, and thermophilic temperatures under aerobic and anaerobic environments.To assess Escherichia coli (E. coli) persistence in dairy manure, bench scale experiments were conducted under aerobic and anaerobic environments. The changes in E. coli levels in dairy manure were assessed at moderate (25 °C), mesophilic (37 °C), and thermophilic (52.5 °C) temperatures. The inactivation of E. coli at moderate, mesophilic, and thermophilic temperatures were described by linear regression equations. Subsequently, double-exponential kinetic models were developed to describe the E. coli decay curves under aerobic and anaerobic environments. The kinetics models were used to estimate E. coli log reductions at various temperatures. Results showed that the double-exponential kinetic models performed well while calculating E. coli reductions in dairy manure over the incubation period. In addition, we evaluated digestate to compare the changes in total solids and volatile solids, total organic carbon, total nitrogen, pH, and oxygen reduction potential levels in aerobic and anaerobic conditions under various temperatures. We anticipate that the results presented here will be useful for enhancing the understanding of pathogen reduction in anaerobic and aerobic processes during dairy manure treatment.

Enhanced solid-state biogas production from lignocellulosic biomass by organosolv pretreatment.Organosolv pretreatment was used to improve solid-state anaerobic digestion (SSAD) for methane production from three different lignocellulosic substrates (hardwood elm, softwood pine, and agricultural waste rice straw). Pretreatments were conducted at 150 and 180(°)C for 30 and 60 min using 75% ethanol solution as an organic solvent with addition of sulfuric acid as a catalyst. The statistical analyses showed that pretreatment temperature was the significant factor affecting methane production. Optimum temperature was 180(°)C for elmwood while it was 150(°)C for both pinewood and rice straw. Maximum methane production was 152.7, 93.7, and 71.4 liter per kg carbohydrates (CH), which showed up to 32, 73, and 84% enhancement for rice straw, elmwood, and pinewood, respectively, compared to those from the untreated substrates. An inverse relationship between the total methane yield and the lignin content of the substrates was observed. Kinetic analysis of the methane production showed that the process followed a first-order model for all untreated and pretreated lignocelluloses.

Live Faecalibacterium prausnitzii in an apical anaerobic model of the intestinal epithelial barrier.Faecalibacterium prausnitzii, an abundant member of the human commensal microbiota, has been proposed to have a protective role in the intestine. However, it is an obligate anaerobe, difficult to co-culture in viable form with oxygen-requiring intestinal cells. To overcome this limitation, a unique apical anaerobic model of the intestinal barrier, which enabled co-culture of live obligate anaerobes with the human intestinal cell line Caco-2, was developed. Caco-2 cells remained viable and maintained an intact barrier for at least 12 h, consistent with gene expression data, which suggested Caco-2 cells had adapted to survive in an oxygen-reduced atmosphere. Live F. prausnitzii cells, but not ultraviolet (UV)-killed F. prausnitzii, increased the permeability of mannitol across the epithelial barrier. Gene expression analysis showed inflammatory mediators to be expressed at lower amounts in Caco-2 cells exposed to live F. prausnitzii than UV-killed F. prausnitzii, This, consistent with previous reports, implies that live F. prausnitzii produces an anti-inflammatory compound in the culture supernatant, demonstrating the value of a physiologically relevant co-culture system that allows obligate anaerobic bacteria to remain viable.

Microbial community structure and dynamics during co-digestion of whey permeate and cow manure in continuous stirred tank reactor systems.Microbial community profiles in two parallel CSTR biogas reactors fed with whey permeate and cow manure were investigated. The operating conditions for these two reactors were identical, yet only one of them (R1) showed stable performance, whereas the other (R2) showed a decrease in methane production accompanied by accumulation of propionic acid and, later, acetic acid. This gave a unique opportunity to study the dynamics of the microbial communities in two biogas reactors apparently operating close to the edge of stability. The microbial community was dominated by Bacteroidetes and Firmicutes, and the methanogens Methanobacteriales and Methanomicrobiales in both reactors, but with larger fluctuations in R2. Correlation analyses showed that the depletion of propionic acid in R1 and the late increase of acetic acid in R2 was related to several bacterial groups. The biogas production in R1 shows that stable co-digestion of manure and whey can be achieved with reasonable yields.

Evaluation of dried sweet sorghum stalks as raw material for methane production.The potential of utilizing dried sweet sorghum stalks as raw material for anaerobic digestion has been evaluated. Two different treatments were tested, a mild thermal and an enzymatic, alone or in combination. Thermal pretreatment was found to decrease the methane yields, whereas one-step enzymatic treatment resulted in a significant increase of 15.1% comparing to the untreated sweet sorghum. Subsequently, in order to increase the total methane production, the combined effect of enzyme load and I/S on methane yields from sweet sorghum was evaluated by employing response surface methodology. The obtained model showed that the maximum methane yield that could be achieved is 296 mL CH4/g VS at I/S ratio of 0.35 with the addition of 11.12 FPU/g sweet sorghum.

Anaerobic digestion of giant reed for methane production.As a fast growing plant, giant reed has good potential to be used as a feedstock for methane production via anaerobic digestion (AD). The effect of total solids (TS) content, an AD operating parameter, was studied. Results showed that increasing TS from 8% to 38% decreased methane yield, due to the inhibition of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) and total ammonia nitrogen (TAN); while the maximum volumetric methane production was obtained at 20-23% TS. Comparison of solid-state AD (SS-AD) at 20% TS and liquid AD (L-AD) at 8% TS was conducted at feedstock to effluent (F/E) ratios of 2.0, 3.5, and 5.0. The best performance was achieved at an F/E of 2.0, with methane yields of 129.7 and 150.8L-CH4/kg-VS for SS-AD and L-AD, respectively. Overall organic components were degraded by 17.7-28.5% and 24.0-26.6% in SS-AD and L-AD, respectively; among which cellulose showed the highest degradation rate and the highest contribution to methane production.

The influence of iron concentration on biohydrogen production from organic waste via anaerobic fermentation.Different micronutrients are essential for bacterial fermentative metabolism. In particular, some metallic ions, like iron, are able to affect the biological H₂production. In this study, batch tests were carried out in stirred reactors to investigate the effects of Fe²⁺ concentration on fermentative H₂production from two different organic fractions of waste: source-separated organic waste (OW) from a composting plant including organic fraction of municipal solid waste and food waste (FW) from a refectory. Iron supplementation at 1000 mg/L caused twofold increment in the cumulative H₂production from OW (922 mL) compared with the control (without iron doping). The highest H₂production (1736 mL) from FW occurred when Fe²⁺ concentration was equal to 50 mg/L. In addition, the process production from OW was modelled through the modified Gompertz equation. For FW, a translated Gompertz equation was used by the authors, because the initial lag-time for H₂production from FW was almost negligible.

Microalgae to biofuels: life cycle impacts of methane production of anaerobically digested lipid extracted algae.This study presents experimental measurements of the biochemical methane production for whole and lipid extracted Nannochloropsis salina. Results show whole microalgae produced 430 cm(3)-CH4 g-volatile solids(-1) (g-VS) (σ=60), 3 times more methane than was produced by the LEA, 140 cm(3)-CH4 g-VS(-1) (σ=30). Results illustrate current anaerobic modeling efforts in microalgae to biofuel assessments are not reflecting the impact of lipid removal. On a systems level, the overestimation of methane production is shown to positively skew the environmental impact of the microalgae to biofuels process. Discussion focuses on a comparison results to those of previous anaerobic digestion studies and quantifies the corresponding change in greenhouse gas emissions of the microalgae to biofuels process based on results from this study.

Nonlinear Autoregressive Exogenous modeling of a large anaerobic digester producing biogas from cattle waste.In waste-to-energy plants, there is every likelihood of variations in the quantity and characteristics of the feed. Although intermediate storage tanks are used, but many times these are of inadequate capacity to dampen the variations. In such situations an anaerobic digester treating waste slurry operates under dynamic conditions. In this work a special type of dynamic Artificial Neural Network model, called Nonlinear Autoregressive Exogenous model, is used to model the dynamics of anaerobic digesters by using about one year data collected on the operating digesters. The developed model consists of two hidden layers each having 10 neurons, and uses 18days delay. There are five neurons in input layer and one neuron in output layer for a day. Model predictions of biogas production rate are close to plant performance within ±8% deviation.

Evaluation of batch anaerobic co-digestion of palm pressed fiber and cattle manure under mesophilic conditions.Palm pressed fiber (PPF) and cattle manure (CM) are the waste which can be managed properly by anaerobic co-digestion. The biogas production in co-digested PPF and CM at three volatile solids (VS) ratios of 3:1, 1:1, and 1:3 was investigated in a series of batch experiments at an organic loading rate of 30.0 g VS/L under mesophilic (37±1°C) conditions. The highest daily biogas yield of PPF and CM only, was 90.0 mL/g VS(added) at day 12 and 23.4 mL/g VS(added) at day 7. For co-digestion of PPF/CM at mixing ratios of 3:1, 1:1 and 1:3, there were 93.6 mL/g VS(added) at day 11, 86.8 and 26.4 mL/g VS(added) at day 8. VS removal rate for PPF, CM, and co-digestion at mixing ratio of 3:1, 1:1, and 1:3 were 91.1%, 86.0% and 71.0%, respectively. The anaerobic digestion of PPF and CM and their co-digestion systems were stable in operation with low range of volatile fatty acids (VFA)/TIC (total inorganic carbon) of (0.035-0.091). The main volatile fatty acids were propionic, and iso-butyric acids for PPF, iso-butyric and n-butyric acids for CM. The VFAs and ammonium inhibition were not occurred. The modified Gompertz model can be used to perform a better prediction with a lower difference between the measured and predicted biogas yields. A VS ratio of 3:1 is recommended for practice.

Online monitoring of concentration and dynamics of volatile fatty acids in anaerobic digestion processes with mid-infrared spectroscopy.An ATR-MIR-FTIR spectrometer was integrated into a laboratory scale anaerobic digestion setup. Automatically, a sludge sample from the digester was transferred to a measurement cell; an IR spectrum was recorded and evaluated by chemometric models to estimate the concentration of the individual volatile fatty acids (VFA). The calibration set included semi-artificial samples spiked with known concentrations of the VFA as well as original samples from a continuous fermentation. High-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) was used as a reference analysis of the samples. The models were optimized for a low root mean square error of prediction (RMSEP). R(2) for acetic acid, propionic acid, isobutyric acid, butyric acid, valeric acid, and isovaleric acid were 0.94, 0.88, 0.83, 0.75, 0.59, and 0.90, respectively. The accuracy of the models was validated in a second experiment. Considering the complex and heterogeneous sludge composition and the chemical similarity of VFA, absolute concentration and dynamic (increasing and decreasing concentration of VFA) was predicted well for acetic, propionic, isobutyric, and isovaleric acid (in their respective concentration range); Butyric acid could not be detected. The installed setup was able to gather and measure native samples from the digester (every 2 h) automatically over a period of 6 months without problems of clogging or biofouling. The instant and continuous analysis of the concentration of the VFA made it possible to evaluate the current bioprocess status and adjust the organic loading rate accordingly.

Intestinal mucosal barrier is injured by BMP2/4 via activation of NF-κB signals after ischemic reperfusion.Intestinal ischemic reperfusion (I/R) can cause dysfunction of the intestinal mucosal barrier; however, the mechanism of the intestinal mucosal barrier dysfunction caused by I/R remains unclear. In this study, using intestinal epithelial cells under anaerobic cultivation and an in vivo rat intestinal I/R model, we found that hypoxia and I/R increased the expression of BMP2/4 and upregulated BMP type Ia receptor and BMP type II receptor expression. We also found that exogenous BMP2/4 can activate the ERK and AKT signaling pathways in rat small intestine (IEC-6) cells, thereby activating NF-κB signaling, which leads to increased levels of inflammatory factors, such as TNF-α and IL-6. Furthermore, recombinant BMP2/4 decreased the expression of the tight junction protein occludin via the activation of the NF-κB pathway; these effects were abolished by treatment with the BMP-specific antagonist noggin or the NF-κB inhibitor pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate (PDTC). All these factors can destroy the intestinal mucosal barrier, thereby leading to weaker barrier function. On the basis of these data, we conclude that BMP2/4 may act as the pathogenic basis for intestinal mucosal barrier dysfunction when the intestines suffer an I/R injury. Our results provide background for the development pharmacologic interventions in the management of I/R injury.

The mechanism of enterohepatic circulation in the formation of gallstone disease.Bile acids entering into enterohepatic circulating are primary acids synthesized from cholesterol in hepatocyte. They are secreted actively across canalicular membrane and carried in bile to gallbladder, where they are concentrated during digestion. About 95% BAs are actively taken up from the lumen of terminal ileum efficiently, leaving only approximately 5% (or approximately 0.5 g/d) in colon, and a fraction of bile acids are passively reabsorbed after a series of modifications in the human large intestine including deconjugation and oxidation of hydroxy groups. Bile salts hydrolysis and hydroxy group dehydrogenation reactions are performed by a broad spectrum of intestinal anaerobic bacteria. Next, hepatocyte reabsorbs bile acids from sinusoidal blood, which are carried to liver through portal vein via a series of transporters. Bile acids (BAs) transporters are critical for maintenance of the enterohepatic BAs circulation, where BAs exert their multiple physiological functions including stimulation of bile flow, intestinal absorption of lipophilic nutrients, solubilization, and excretion of cholesterol. Tight regulation of BA transporters via nuclear receptors (NRs) is necessary to maintain proper BA homeostasis. In conclusion, disturbances of enterohepatic circulation may account for pathogenesis of gallstones diseases, including BAs transporters and their regulatory NRs and the metabolism of intestinal bacterias, etc.

Anaerobic digestibility of estrogens in wastewater sludge: effect of ultrasonic pretreatment.Estrogenic compounds have been detected in the secondary effluents and in the biosolids from conventional wastewater treatment plants, which are not designed for their removal. Furthermore, existing limited studies on anaerobic digestibility of estrogens report conflicting results. The objective of the present work was to determine the fate and anaerobic digestibility of estrogenic compounds in various types of sludge including primary sludge (PS), waste activated sludge (WAS), and anaerobically digested sludge (seed).
Estrone (E1) and 17-β estradiol (E2) were chosen as the model estrogenic compounds. Initially batch adsorption was conducted to determine the extent of adsorption and isotherm of E1 on various sludge. Thereafter, batch anaerobic digestion of E1 and E2 was conducted in various sludge using So/X ratio of 4 gCOD/gVSS in 250 ml bottles. The effect of earlier optimized ultrasonication dosage on the anaerobic digestion of E1 and E2 was also characterized. Estrogenicity of the digested samples was determined by the YES assay.
Most of E1 and E2 was adsorbed on the biosolids and the Freundlich isotherm fitted the experimental data well. No anaerobic digestion of E1 and E2 was found in any of the sludge tested, and the estrogenicity of the sludge measured by YES assay increased during digestion due to the formation of E2 from E1 in a reduced environment. Ultrasonication decreased the initial mass of E1 and E2 by 20% in the sonicated digester as compared to control digester, however, there was no further decrease in E1 and E2 during digestion.
Most of the estrogenic compounds partitioned onto the solids and remained there during digestion. Ultrasonication pretreatment reduced the estrogen burden for the digester due to advance oxidation, but no further removal of the estrogens occurred in the digester.

Determining short chain fatty acids in sewage sludge hydrolysate: a comparison of three analytical methods and investigation of sample storage effects.In anaerobic digestion, the production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) can be beneficial or harmful to the overall process, depending on the concentration of accumulated acids. Therefore, the accurate determination of the SCFA concentration in both fresh and stored sludge hydrolysates is important. To select a suitable method for monitoring SCFAs during the anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge, the accuracy of three available analytical methods, including 5 pH point acid titration (TITRA5), gas chromatography (GC), and spectrophotometry, were compared in the present study. The results revealed that TITRA5 and GC displayed better agreement in the achieved measurements and higher precision and accuracy than the spectrophotometric assay, as supported by the application of different statistical models. TITRA5 excelled in titrating unfiltered hydrolysate while simultaneously measuring the alkalinity, whereas the GC method provided detailed information on the contribution of different fatty acids to the total acidity. In contrast, the spectrophotometric assay suffered from many forms of interference, depending on the sample's matrix. SCFA production followed the pattern of enzymatic reactions and fitted the Michaelis-Menten model. In addition to promoting TITRA5 as an accurate and robust analytical tool for routine SCFA analyses, this comparative study also demonstrated the possibility of storing hydrolysate samples at different temperatures and durations without altering the SCFA measurements.

Identification of synergistic impacts during anaerobic co-digestion of organic wastes.Anaerobic co-digestion has been widely investigated, but there is limited analysis of interaction between substrates. The objective of this work was to assess the role of carbohydrates, protein and lipids in co-digestion behaviour separately, and together. Two sets of batch tests were done, each set consisting of the mono-digestion of three substrates, and the co-digestion of seven mixtures. The first was done with pure substrates--cellulose, casein and olive oil--while in the second slaughterhouse waste--paunch, blood and fat--were used as carbohydrate, protein and lipid sources, respectively. Synergistic effects were mainly improvement of process kinetics without a significant change in biodegradability. Kinetics improvement was linked to the mitigation of inhibitory compounds, particularly fats dilution. The exception was co-digestion of paunch with lipids, which resulted in an improved final yield with model based analysis indicating the presence of paunch improved degradability of the fatty feed.

Digestate color and light intensity affect nutrient removal and competition phenomena in a microalgal-bacterial ecosystem.During anaerobic digestion, nutrients are mineralized and may require post-treatment for optimum valorization. The cultivation of autotrophic microalgae using the digestate supernatant is a promising solution; however the dark color of the influent poses a serious problem. First, the color of the digestates was studied and the results obtained using three different digestates demonstrated a strong heterogeneity although their color remained rather constant over time. The digestates absorbed light over the whole visible spectrum and remained colored even after a ten-fold dilution. Secondly, the impact of light and of substrate color on the growth of Scenedesmus sp. and on nitrogen removal were assessed. These experiments led to the construction of a model for predicting the impact of influent color and light intensity on N removal. Maximum N removal (8.5 mgN- [Formula: see text]  L(-1) d(-1)) was observed with an initial optical density of 0.221 and 244 μmolE m(-)² s(-1) light and the model allows to determine N removal between 15.9 and 22.7 mgN- [Formula: see text]  L(-1) d(-1) in real conditions according to the dilution level of the influent and related color. Changes in the microalgae community were monitored and revealed the advantage of Chlorella over Scenedesmus under light-limitation. Additionally microalgae outcompeted nitrifying bacteria and experiments showed how microalgae become better competitors for nutrients when phosphorus is limiting. Furthermore, nitrification was limited by microalgae growth, even when P was not limiting.

Comparative analysis of anaerobically digested wastes flow properties.The flow curve of anaerobically digested wastes from different origins was determined through rheological measurements. Regardless of their origin, samples can be divided into two families: simple non-Newtonian liquids well modelled by basic power law below 10%DC and viscoelastic liquids with a yield stress, well modelled by a Herschel-Bulkley model above. In all the cases, the rheological behaviour is driven by both the organic content and the volatile fraction (organic content/solid content), indicating that anaerobic digestion tends to smooth the rheological characteristics of organic wastes, whichever their origins.

Modified ADM1 for modelling an UASB reactor laboratory plant treating starch wastewater and synthetic substrate load tests.A laboratory plant consisting of two UASB reactors was used for the treatment of industrial wastewater from the wheat starch industry. Several load tests were carried out with starch wastewater and the synthetic substrates glucose, acetate, cellulose, butyrate and propionate to observe the impact of changing loads on gas yield and effluent quality. The measurement data sets were used for calibration and validation of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1). For a precise simulation of the detected glucose degradation during load tests with starch wastewater and glucose, it was necessary to incorporate the complete lactic acid fermentation into the ADM1, which contains the formation and degradation of lactate and a non-competitive inhibition function. The modelling results of both reactors based on the modified ADM1 confirm an accurate calculation of the produced gas and the effluent concentrations. Especially, the modelled lactate effluent concentrations for the load cases are similar to the measurements and justified by literature.

Inactivation of selected bacterial pathogens in dairy cattle manure by mesophilic anaerobic digestion (balloon type digester).Anaerobic digestion of animal manure in biogas digesters has shown promise as a technology in reducing the microbial load to safe and recommended levels. We sought to treat dairy manure obtained from the Fort Hare Dairy Farm by investigating the survival rates of bacterial pathogens, through a total viable plate count method, before, during and after mesophilic anaerobic digestion. Different microbiological media were inoculated with different serial dilutions of manure samples that were withdrawn from the biogas digester at 3, 7 and 14 day intervals to determine the viable cells. Data obtained indicated that the pathogens of public health importance were 90%-99% reduced in the order: Campylobacter sp. (18 days) < Escherichia coli sp. (62 days) < Salmonella sp. (133 days) from a viable count of 10.1 × 103, 3.6 × 105, 7.4 × 103 to concentrations below the detection limit (DL = 102 cfu/g manure), respectively. This disparity in survival rates may be influenced by the inherent characteristics of these bacteria, available nutrients as well as the stages of the anaerobic digestion process. In addition, the highest p-value i.e., 0.957 for E. coli showed the statistical significance of its model and the strongest correlation between its reductions with days of digestion. In conclusion, the results demonstrated that the specific bacterial pathogens in manure can be considerably reduced through anaerobic digestion after 133 days.

Application of Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 to describe the syntrophic acetate oxidation of poultry litter in thermophilic anaerobic digestion.A molecular analysis found that poultry litter anaerobic digestion was dominated by hydrogenotrophic methanogens which suggests that bacterial acetate oxidation is the primary pathway in the thermophilic digestion of poultry litter. IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) was modified to include the bacterial acetate oxidation process in the thermophilic anaerobic digestion (TAD). Two methods for ADM1 parameter estimation were applied: manual calibration with non-linear least squares (MC-NLLS) and an automatic calibration using differential evolution algorithms (DEA). In terms of kinetic parameters for acetate oxidizing bacteria, estimation by MC-NLLS and DEA were, respectively, km 1.12 and 3.25 ± 0.56 kg COD kg COD(-1)d(-1), KS 0.20 and 0.29 ± 0.018 kg COD m(-3) and Yac-st 0.14 and 0.10 ± 0.016 kg COD kg COD(-1). Experimental and predicted volatile fatty acids and biogas composition were in good agreement. Values of BIAS, MSE or INDEX demonstrate that both methods (MC-NLLS and DEA) increased ADM1 accuracy.

Anaerobic digestion of microalgal biomass after ultrasound pretreatment.High rate algal ponds are an economic and sustainable alternative for wastewater treatment, where microalgae and bacteria grow in symbiosis removing organic matter and nutrients. Microalgal biomass produced in these systems can be valorised through anaerobic digestion. However, microalgae anaerobic biodegradability is limited by the complex cell wall structure and therefore a pretreatment step may be required to improve the methane yield. In this study, ultrasound pretreatment at a range of applied specific energy (16-67 MJ/kg TS) was investigated prior to microalgae anaerobic digestion. Experiments showed how organic matter solubilisation (16-100%), hydrolysis rate (25-56%) and methane yield (6-33%) were improved as the pretreatment intensity increased. Mathematical modelling revealed that ultrasonication had a higher effect on the methane yield than on the hydrolysis rate. A preliminary energy assessment indicated that the methane yield increase was not high enough as to compensate the electricity requirement of ultrasonication without biomass dewatering (8% VS).

Metabolomics analysis identifies intestinal microbiota-derived biomarkers of colonization resistance in clindamycin-treated mice.The intestinal microbiota protect the host against enteric pathogens through a defense mechanism termed colonization resistance. Antibiotics excreted into the intestinal tract may disrupt colonization resistance and alter normal metabolic functions of the microbiota. We used a mouse model to test the hypothesis that alterations in levels of bacterial metabolites in fecal specimens could provide useful biomarkers indicating disrupted or intact colonization resistance after antibiotic treatment.
To assess in vivo colonization resistance, mice were challenged with oral vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus or Clostridium difficile spores at varying time points after treatment with the lincosamide antibiotic clindamycin. For concurrent groups of antibiotic-treated mice, stool samples were analyzed using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction to assess changes in the microbiota and using non-targeted metabolic profiling. To assess whether the findings were applicable to another antibiotic class that suppresses intestinal anaerobes, similar experiments were conducted with piperacillin/tazobactam.
Colonization resistance began to recover within 5 days and was intact by 12 days after clindamycin treatment, coinciding with the recovery bacteria from the families Lachnospiraceae and Ruminococcaceae, both part of the phylum Firmicutes. Clindamycin treatment caused marked changes in metabolites present in fecal specimens. Of 484 compounds analyzed, 146 (30%) exhibited a significant increase or decrease in concentration during clindamycin treatment followed by recovery to baseline that coincided with restoration of in vivo colonization resistance. Identified as potential biomarkers of colonization resistance, these compounds included intermediates in carbohydrate or protein metabolism that increased (pentitols, gamma-glutamyl amino acids and inositol metabolites) or decreased (pentoses, dipeptides) with clindamycin treatment. Piperacillin/tazobactam treatment caused similar alterations in the intestinal microbiota and fecal metabolites.
Recovery of colonization resistance after antibiotic treatment coincided with restoration of several fecal bacterial metabolites. These metabolites could provide useful biomarkers indicating intact or disrupted colonization resistance during and after antibiotic treatment.

Enhancing methane production from waste activated sludge using combined free nitrous acid and heat pre-treatment.Methane production from anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge (WAS) is often limited by the slow degradation and poor substrate availability of WAS. Our previous study revealed that WAS pre-treatment using free nitrous acid (FNA, i.e. HNO2) is an economically feasible and environmentally friendly method for promoting methane production. In order to further improve methane production from WAS, this study presents a novel strategy based on combined FNA and heat pre-treatment. WAS from a full-scale plant was treated for 24 h with FNA alone (0.52-1.43 mg N/L at 25 °C), heat alone (35, 55 and 70 °C), and FNA (0.52-1.11 mg N/L) combined with heat (35, 55 and 70 °C). The pre-treated WAS was then used for biochemical methane potential tests. Compared to the control (no FNA or heat pre-treatment of WAS), biochemical methane potential of the pre-treated WAS was increased by 12-16%, 0-6%, 17-26%, respectively; hydrolysis rate was improved by 15-25%, 10-25%, 20-25%, respectively, for the three types of pre-treatment. Heat pre-treatment at 55 and 70 °C, independent of the presence or absence of FNA, achieved approximately 4.5 log inactivation of pathogens (in comparison to ∼1 log inactivation with FNA treatment alone), thus capable of producing Class A biosolids. The combined FNA and heat pre-treatment is an economically and environmentally attractive technology for the pre-treatment of WAS prior to anaerobic digestion, particularly considering that both FNA and heat can be produced as by-products of anaerobic sludge digestion.

A mass diffusion-based interpretation of the effect of total solids content on solid-state anaerobic digestion of cellulosic biomass.In solid-state anaerobic digestion (SS-AD) of cellulosic biomass, the volumetric methane production rate has often been found to increase with the increase in total solids (TS) content until a threshold is reached, and then to decrease. This phenomenon cannot be explained by conventional understanding derived from liquid anaerobic digestion. This study proposed that the high TS content-caused mass diffusion limitation may be responsible for the observed methane production deterioration. Based on this hypothesis, a new SS-AD model was developed by taking into account the mass diffusion limitation and hydrolysis inhibition. The good agreement between model simulation and the experimental as well as literature data verified that the observed reduction in volumetric methane production rate could be ascribed to hydrolysis inhibition as a result of the mass diffusion limitation in SS-AD.

Monocolonization of germ-free mice with Bacteroides fragilis protects against dextran sulfate sodium-induced acute colitis.Ulcerative colitis is inflammatory conditions of the colon caused by interplay of genetic and environmental factors. Previous studies indicated that the gut microflora may be involved in the colonic inflammation. Bacteroides fragilis (BF) is a Gram-negative anaerobe belonging to the colonic symbiotic. We aimed to investigate the protective role of BF in a colitis model induced in germ-free (GF) mice by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS). GF C57BL/6JNarl mice were colonized with BF for 28 days before acute colitis was induced by DSS. BF colonization significantly increased animal survival by 40%, with less reduction in colon length, and decreased infiltration of inflammatory cells (macrophages and neutrophils) in colon mucosa following challenge with DSS. In addition, BF could enhance the mRNA expression of anti-inflammatory-related cytokine such as interleukin 10 (IL-10) with polymorphism cytokine IL-17 and diminish that of proinflammatory-related tumor necrosis factor α with inducible nitric oxide synthase in the ulcerated colon. Myeloperoxidase activity was also decreased in BF-DSS mice. Taking these together, the BF colonization significantly ameliorated DSS-induced colitis by suppressing the activity of inflammatory-related molecules and inducing the production of anti-inflammatory cytokines. BF may play an important role in maintaining intestinal immune system homeostasis and regulate inflammatory responses.

Fructose-asparagine is a primary nutrient during growth of Salmonella in the inflamed intestine.Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium (Salmonella) is one of the most significant food-borne pathogens affecting both humans and agriculture. We have determined that Salmonella encodes an uptake and utilization pathway specific for a novel nutrient, fructose-asparagine (F-Asn), which is essential for Salmonella fitness in the inflamed intestine (modeled using germ-free, streptomycin-treated, ex-germ-free with human microbiota, and IL10-/- mice). The locus encoding F-Asn utilization, fra, provides an advantage only if Salmonella can initiate inflammation and use tetrathionate as a terminal electron acceptor for anaerobic respiration (the fra phenotype is lost in Salmonella SPI1- SPI2- or ttrA mutants, respectively). The severe fitness defect of a Salmonella fra mutant suggests that F-Asn is the primary nutrient utilized by Salmonella in the inflamed intestine and that this system provides a valuable target for novel therapies.

Effect of mild-temperature H2O2 oxidation on solubilization and anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge.Efficient sludge management is among the most challenging issues in wastewater treatment today, and anaerobic digestion is regarded as a viable solution. Mild-temperature H202 oxidation was examined for enhanced solubilization and biogas production of waste activated sludge (WAS). The effects of pretreatment factors (i.e. temperature and H202 concentration) on the degree of WAS disintegration (DD) and biogas yield (BY) were assessed by response surface analysis within the design space of 60-90 degrees C and 0-200mM H202. Significant sludge disintegration (up to 23.0% DD) and visibly enhanced BY (up to 26.9%) were shown in the pretreatment trials. Two response surface models to describe how DD and BY respond to changes in the pretreatment conditions were successfully constructed (R2 > 0.95, p < 0.05). The models showed totally different response surface shapes, indicating the DD and BY were influenced by pretreatment conditions in very different ways. DD was dominantly affected by temperature and showed higher model responses at the high-temperature region, while the BY response peaked in the low-temperature and mid-level H2O2 region. This observation implies that the enhanced solubilization of WAS was not directly translated into an increase in biogas production. Our results showed that WAS can be efficiently disintegrated by H202 oxidation under mild-temperature conditions for enhanced anaerobic digestibility. Within the explored region of pretreatment conditions, the maximum BY was estimated to be 82.1 mL/gCODadded (32.8% greater than the untreated control) at (60.0 degrees C, 74.2 mM H2O2).

An integrated approach to energy recovery from biomass and waste: Anaerobic digestion-gasification-water treatment.The article investigates the performance of an integrated system for the energy recovery from biomass and waste based on anaerobic digestion, gasification and water treatment. In the proposed system, the organic fraction of waste of the digestible biomass is fed into an anaerobic digester, while a part of the combustible fraction of the municipal solid waste is gasified. Thus, the obtained biogas and syngas are used as a fuel for running a cogeneration system based on an internal combustion engine to produce electric and thermal power. The waste water produced by the integrated plant is recovered by means of both forward and inverse osmosis. The different processes, as well as the main components of the system, are modelled by means of a lumped and distributed parameter approach and the main outputs of the integrated plant such as the electric and thermal power and the amount of purified water are calculated. Finally, the implementation of the proposed system is evaluated for urban areas with a different number of inhabitants and the relating performance is estimated in terms of the main outputs of the system.

[Comparative study on biological methane potential and methanogen biodiversity in the anaerobic digestion of excess sludge].AP and DH excess sludge, sampled from AP and DH wastewater treatment plants respectively, were inoculated with their anaerobic sludge respectively and tested with biological methane potential (BMP) method. After the regression analysis with modified Gompertz and Michaelis-Menten model, it was found that although the maximum specific CH4 production rates of AP and DH anaerobic sludge were similar [74.21 and 51.99 mL x (g x d)(-1)], the half-saturation constants K(m) differed obviously (54098 and 19005 mg x L(-)), indicating DH anaerobic sludge exhibited a higher affinity for its excess sludge. At the end of both BMP tests, the concentrations of TSS and COD(T) decreased while the concentration of NH4(+)-N increased obviously, which were more significant at higher ratios of F/M. The T-RFLP analysis results were in accordance with BMP tests. After both BMP tests, the relative amount of diverse bacteria decreased while the relative amounts of Methanosaeta spp. (280 bps), Methanomicrobiaceae (80 bps) and RC-I (389 bps) increased obviously, which were more significant in DH-BMP test compared with AP-BMP.

Enhanced power generation and energy conversion of sewage sludge by CEA-microbial fuel cells.The production of methane from sewage sludge through the use of anaerobic digestion has been able to effectively offset energy costs for wastewater treatment. However, significant energy reserves are left unrecovered and effluent standards are not met necessitating secondary processes such as aeration. In the current study a novel cloth-electrode assembly microbial fuel cell (CEA-MFC) was used to generate electricity from sewage sludge. Fermentation pretreatment of the sludge effectively increased the COD of the supernatant and improved reactor performance. Using the CEA-MFC design, a maximum power density of 1200 mW m(-2) was reached after a fermentation pre-treatment time of 96 h. This power density represents a 275% increase over those previously observed in MFC systems. Results indicate continued improvements are possible and MFCs may be a viable modification to existing wastewater treatment infrastructure.

An improved titration model reducing over estimation of total volatile fatty acids in anaerobic digestion of energy crop, animal slurry and food waste.Titration methodologies have been used for the many years for low cost routine monitoring of full scale anaerobic digestion plants. These methodologies have been correlated to indicate the carbonate alkalinity and the volatile fatty acids (VFA) content within digesters. Two commonly used two end-point titration methods were compared using a dataset of 154 samples from energy crop and animal slurry digestates and were shown to be inaccurate in the estimation of tVFA. Using this dataset correlated with HPLC VFA analysis, two empirical bivariate linear regression equations were derived, where the validation dataset showed an absolute tVFA mean error improvement from ±3386 and ±3324 mg kg(-1) tVFA to ±410 and ±286 mg kg(-1) tVFA, respectively. The same equation was then applied to a food waste dataset where an absolute tVFA mean error was improved from ±3828 to ±576 mg kg(-1) tVFA. The newly derived titration equations can provide greater confidence in digester performance monitoring and are tools that can improve digester management.

Partial depletion of natural gut flora by antibiotic aggravates collagen induced arthritis (CIA) in mice.Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic inflammatory disease that affects about 1% of the adult population and occurs twice as frequently among women than men. At present it is accepted that pathogenesis of RA is based on inflammatory response mediated by CD4(+) Th1 and Th17 lymphocytes. The most commonly applied model imitating RA is the collagen induced arthritis (CIA). A growing evidence shows that there is a correlation between microbial dysbiosis and human pathology which includes autoimmunity, allergic diseases, obesity, inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), metabolic syndrome.
Collagen induced arthritis was used to study influence of natural gut flora on course of rheumatoid arthritis.
Current work employing CIA model showed that partial depletion of natural gut flora with orally administered antibiotic Baytril (enrofloxacin) aggravates disease severity when compared to control mice. Observed partial depletion of both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria did not affect animal body weight. Additionally, in vitro study showed increased production of IFN-? and IL-17A and decreased release of IL-4 by axillary lymph node cells (ALNC) isolated from mice treated with antibiotic and induced CIA when compared to positive control. Furthermore, treatment with antibiotic prior to CIA induction results in augmented production of IFN-?, IL-17A and IL-6 by mesenteric lymph node cells (MLNC).
Presented data suggest that alteration of gut microbiota via use of enrofloxacin may play a role in modulating arthritis symptom severity in this mouse model.

Life cycle assessment of nutrient removal technologies for the treatment of anaerobic digestion supernatant and its integration in a wastewater treatment plant.The supernatant resulting from the anaerobic digestion of sludge generated by wastewater treatment plants (WWTP) is an attractive flow for technologies such as partial nitritation-anammox (CANON), nitrite shortcut (NSC) and struvite crystallization processes (SCP). The high concentration of N and P and its low flow rate facilitate the removal of nutrients under more favorable conditions than in the main water line. Despite their operational and economic benefits, the environmental burdens of these technologies also need to be assessed to prove their feasibility under a more holistic perspective. The potential environmental implications of these technologies were assessed using life cycle assessment, first at pilot plant scale, later integrating them in a modeled full WWTP. Pilot plant results reported a much lower environmental impact for N removal technologies than SCP. Full-scale modeling, however, highlighted that the differences between technologies were not relevant once they are integrated in a WWTP. The impacts associated with the WWTP are slightly reduced in all categories except for eutrophication, where a substantial reduction was achieved using NSC, SCP, and especially when CANON and SCP were combined. This study emphasizes the need for assessing wastewater treatment technologies as part of a WWTP rather than as individual processes and the utility of modeling tools for doing so.

Processing anaerobic sludge for extended storage as anaerobic digester inoculum.Thermophilic anaerobic sludge was processed to reduce the volume and moisture content in order to reduce costs for storing and transporting the sludge as microbial inoculum for anaerobic digester startup. The moisture content of the sludge was reduced from 98.7% to 82.0% via centrifugation and further to 71.5% via vacuum evaporation. The processed sludge was stored for 2 and 4 months and compared with the fresh sludge for the biogas and methane production using food waste and non-fat dry milk as substrates. It was found that fresh unprocessed sludge had the highest methane yield and the yields of both unprocessed and processed sludges decreased during storage by 1-34%, however processed sludges seemed to regain some activity after 4 months of storage as compared to samples stored for only 2 months. Maximum methane production rates obtained from modified Gompertz model application also increased between the 2-month and 4-month processed samples.

Innovative two-stage mesophilic/thermophilic anaerobic degradation of sonicated sludge: performances and energy balance.This study investigates for the first time, on laboratory scale, the possible application of an innovative enhanced stabilization process based on sequential mesophilic/thermophilic anaerobic digestion of waste-activated sludge, with low-energy sonication pretreatment. The first mesophilic digestion step was conducted at short hydraulic retention time (3-5 days), in order to favor volatile fatty acid production, followed by a longer thermophilic step of 10 days to enhance the bioconversion kinetics, assuring a complete pathogen removal. The high volatile solid removals, up to 55%, noticeably higher compared to the performances of a single-stage process carried out in same conditions, can guarantee the stability of the final digestate for land application. The ultrasonic pretreatment influenced significantly the fatty acid formation and composition during the first mesophilic step, improving consequently the thermophilic conversion of these compounds into methane. Methane yield from sonicated sludge digestion reached values up to 0.2 Nm(3)/kgVSfed. Positive energy balances highlighted the possible exploitation of this innovative two-stage digestion in place of conventional single-stage processes.

A modified anaerobic digestion process with chemical sludge pre-treatment and its modelling.Activated Sludge Models (ASMs) assume an unbiodegradable organic particulate fraction in the activated sludge, which is derived from the decay of active microorganisms in the sludge and/or introduced from wastewater. In this study, a seasonal change of such activated sludge constituents in a municipal wastewater treatment plant was monitored for 1.5 years. The chemical oxygen demand ratio of the unbiodegradable particulates to the sludge showed a sinusoidal pattern ranging from 40 to 65% along with the change of water temperature in the plant that affected the decay rate. The biogas production in a laboratory-scale anaerobic digestion (AD) process was also affected by the unbiodegradable fraction in the activated sludge fed. Based on the results a chemical pre-treatment using H2O2 was conducted on the digestate to convert the unbiodegradable fraction to a biodegradable one. Once the pre-treated digestate was returned to the digester, the methane conversion increased up to 80% which was about 2.4 times as much as that of the conventional AD process, whilst 96% of volatile solids in the activated sludge was digested. From the experiment, the additional route of the organic conversion processes for the inert fraction at the pre-treatment stage was modelled on the ASM platform with reasonable simulation accuracy.

Magnetite particles triggering a faster and more robust syntrophic pathway of methanogenic propionate degradation.Interspecies electron transfer mechanisms between Bacteria and Archaea play a pivotal role during methanogenic degradation of organic matter in natural and engineered anaerobic ecosystems. Growing evidence suggests that in syntrophic communities electron transfer does not rely exclusively on the exchange of diffusible molecules and energy carriers such as hydrogen or formate, rather microorganisms have the capability to exchange metabolic electrons in a more direct manner. Here, we show that supplementation of micrometer-size magnetite (Fe3O4) particles to a methanogenic sludge enhanced (up to 33%) the methane production rate from propionate, a key intermediate in the anaerobic digestion of organic matter and a model substrate to study energy-limited syntrophic communities. The stimulatory effect most probably resulted from the establishment of a direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET), based on magnetite particles serving as electron conduits between propionate-oxidizing acetogens and carbon dioxide-reducing methanogens. Theoretical calculations revealed that DIET allows electrons to be transferred among syntrophic partners at rates which are substantially higher than those attainable via interspecies H2 transfer. Besides the remarkable potential for improving anaerobic digestion, which is a proven biological strategy for renewable energy production, the herein described conduction-based DIET could also have a role in natural methane emissions from magnetite-rich soils and sediments.

Flux analysis of the human proximal colon using anaerobic digestion model 1.The colon can be regarded as an anaerobic digestive compartment within the gastro intestinal tract (GIT). An in silico model simulating the fluxes in the human proximal colon was developed on basis of the anaerobic digestion model 1 (ADM1), which is traditionally used to model waste conversion to biogas. Model calibration was conducted using data from in vitro fermentation of the proximal colon (TIM-2), and, amongst others, supplemented with the bio kinetics of prebiotic galactooligosaccharides (GOS) fermentation. The impact of water and solutes absorption by the host was also included. Hydrolysis constants of carbohydrates and proteins were estimated based on total short chain fatty acids (SCFA) and ammonia production in vitro. Model validation was established using an independent dataset of a different in vitro model: an in vitro three-stage continuous culture system. The in silico model was shown to provide quantitative insight in the microbial community structure in terms of functional groups, and the substrate and product fluxes between these groups as well as the host, as a function of the substrate composition, pH and the solids residence time (SRT). The model confirms the experimental observation that methanogens are washed out at low pH or low SRT-values. The in silico model is proposed as useful tool in the design of experimental setups for in vitro experiments by giving insight in fermentation processes in the proximal human colon.

Application of analytic hierarchy process in a waste treatment technology assessment in Mexico.The high per capita generation of solid waste and the environmental problems in major rural communities of Ensenada, Baja California, have prompted authorities to seek alternatives for waste treatment. In the absence of a selection methodology, three technologies of waste treatment with energy recovery (an anaerobic digester, a downdraft gasifier, and a plasma gasifier) were evaluated, taking the broader social, political, economic, and environmental issues into considerations. Using the scientific literature as a baseline, interviews with experts, decision makers and the community, and waste stream studies were used to construct a hierarchy that was evaluated by the analytic hierarchy process. In terms of the criteria, judgments, and assumptions made in the model, the anaerobic digester was found to have the highest rating and should consequently be selected as the waste treatment technology for this area. The study results showed low sensitivity, so alternative scenarios were not considered. The methodology developed in this study may be useful for other governments who wish to assess technologies to select waste treatment.

Modelling start-up performance of anaerobic digestion of saline-rich macro-algae.Some of the key factors affecting the adaptation of anaerobic digestion processes to increasing levels of salinity were determined in batch tests using brown seaweed as a feedstock. It was found that cultures seeded with non-saline anaerobic inoculum required an adaptation period of up to two months to reach the same level of methane production rate as in those cultures seeded with saline-adapted inoculum. The Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 (ADM1) was modified to include an extra inhibition function to account for the effect of salinity, and calibrated using a set of experimental data obtained from batch biochemical methane potential tests. After calibration, the model was able to accurately predict methane production rates. Thus, the results show that, in the absence of saline-adapted inoculum, non-saline inoculum can be used for the start-up of anaerobic digestion systems treating saline-rich feedstocks.

Anaerobic gut fungi: Advances in isolation, culture, and cellulolytic enzyme discovery for biofuel production.Anaerobic gut fungi are an early branching family of fungi that are commonly found in the digestive tract of ruminants and monogastric herbivores. It is becoming increasingly clear that they are the primary colonizers of ingested plant biomass, and that they significantly contribute to the decomposition of plant biomass into fermentable sugars. As such, anaerobic fungi harbor a rich reservoir of undiscovered cellulolytic enzymes and enzyme complexes that can potentially transform the conversion of lignocellulose into bioenergy products. Despite their unique evolutionary history and cellulolytic activity, few species have been isolated and studied in great detail. As a result, their life cycle, cellular physiology, genetics, and cellulolytic metabolism remain poorly understood compared to aerobic fungi. To help address this limitation, this review briefly summarizes the current body of knowledge pertaining to anaerobic fungal biology, and describes progress made in the isolation, cultivation, molecular characterization, and long-term preservation of these microbes. We also discuss recent cellulase- and cellulosome-discovery efforts from gut fungi, and how these interesting, non-model microbes could be further adapted for biotechnology applications.

Anaerobic model for high-solids or high-temperature digestion - additional pathway of acetate oxidation.Current anaerobic digestion models cannot properly simulate processes that are operated under high solids concentrations or high temperatures. A modification to existing models has been implemented by adding important missing degradation pathways, to accommodate these systems without artificially recalibrating the model parameters. Specifically, we implemented the alternate acetate oxidizing mechanism that is more tolerant to ammonia than the standard aceticlastic pathway. Inhibition values were estimated and an empirical function has been used to apply ammonia inhibition. The model also relates metabolic activity to un-ionised species such as undissociated acetic acid as substrate (although not obligatory for all organisms) and unionised ammonia as inhibitor. The model relies on an equilibrium chemistry module (e.g. including the phosphate buffer), resulting in more accurate pH predictions, which is crucial for proper modeling of CO2 and NH3 stripping. Calibration results from three case-studies modeling thermal hydrolysis and subsequent digestion of sludge are presented.

Navigating wastewater energy recovery strategies: a life cycle comparison of anaerobic membrane bioreactor and conventional treatment systems with anaerobic digestion.The objective of this study was to evaluate emerging anaerobic membrane bioreactor (AnMBR) technology in comparison with conventional wastewater energy recovery technologies. Wastewater treatment process modeling and systems analyses were combined to evaluate the conditions under which AnMBR may produce more net energy and have lower life cycle environmental emissions than high rate activated sludge with anaerobic digestion (HRAS+AD), conventional activated sludge with anaerobic digestion (CAS+AD), and an aerobic membrane bioreactor with anaerobic digestion (AeMBR+AD). For medium strength domestic wastewater treatment under baseline assumptions at 15 °C, AnMBR recovered 49% more energy as biogas than HRAS+AD, the most energy positive conventional technology considered, but had significantly higher energy demands and environmental emissions. Global warming impacts associated with AnMBR were largely due to emissions of effluent dissolved methane. For high strength domestic wastewater treatment, AnMBR recovered 15% more net energy than HRAS+AD, and the environmental emissions gap between the two systems was reduced. Future developments of AnMBR technology in low energy fouling control, increased flux, and management of effluent methane emissions would make AnMBR competitive with HRAS+AD. Rapid advancements in AnMBR technology must continue to achieve its full economic and environmental potential as an energy recovery strategy for domestic wastewater.

Deterministic processes guide long-term synchronised population dynamics in replicate anaerobic digesters.A replicate long-term experiment was conducted using anaerobic digestion (AD) as a model process to determine the relative role of niche and neutral theory on microbial community assembly, and to link community dynamics to system performance. AD is performed by a complex network of microorganisms and process stability relies entirely on the synergistic interactions between populations belonging to different functional guilds. In this study, three independent replicate anaerobic digesters were seeded with the same diverse inoculum, supplied with a model substrate, α-cellulose, and operated for 362 days at a 10-day hydraulic residence time under mesophilic conditions. Selective pressure imposed by the operational conditions and model substrate caused large reproducible changes in community composition including an overall decrease in richness in the first month of operation, followed by synchronised population dynamics that correlated with changes in reactor performance. This included the synchronised emergence and decline of distinct Ruminococcus phylotypes at day 148, and emergence of a Clostridium and Methanosaeta phylotype at day 178, when performance became stable in all reactors. These data suggest that many dynamic functional niches are predictably filled by phylogenetically coherent populations over long time scales. Neutral theory would predict that a complex community with a high degree of recognised functional redundancy would lead to stochastic changes in populations and community divergence over time. We conclude that deterministic processes may play a larger role in microbial community dynamics than currently appreciated, and under controlled conditions it may be possible to reliably predict community structural and functional changes over time.

Oxygen and carbon requirements for biological nitrogen removal processes accomplishing nitrification, nitritation, and anammox.The oxygen and carbon savings associated with novel nitrogen removal processes for the treatment of high ammonia, low biodegradable organic matter waste streams such as the recycle streams from the dewatering of anaerobically digested sludges are well documented.This understanding may lead some to think that similar oxygen savings are possible if novel processes such as nitritation/ denitritation and partial nitritation-deammonification are incorporated into main liquid stream processes where influent biodegradable organic matter is used to denitrify residual oxidized nitrogen (nitrite and nitrate). It is demonstrated that the net oxygen required for nitrogen removal is 1.71 mg O2/mg ammonia-nitrogen converted to nitrogen gas as long as influent biodegradable organic matter is used to denitrify residual oxidized nitrogen. Less oxygen is required to produce oxidized nitrogen with these novel processes, but less biodegradable organic matter is also required for oxidized nitrogen reduction to nitrogen gas, resulting in reduced oxygen savings for the oxidation of biodegradable organic matter. The net oxygen requirement is the same since the net electron transfer for the conversion of ammonia-nitrogen to nitrogen gas is the same. The biodegradable organic matter required to reduce the oxidized nitrogen to nitrogen gas is estimated for these processes based on standard biological process calculations. It is estimated to be in the range of 3.5 to 4.0 mg biodegradable COD/mg ammonia-nitrogen reduced to nitrogen gas for nitrification-denitrification, 2.0 to 2.5 for nitritation-denitritation, and 0.5 for partial nitritation-deammonification. The resulting limiting influent wastewater carbon-to-nitrogen ratios are estimated and can be used to guide the appropriate selection of biological nitrogen removal process given knowledge of the biological process influent wastewater carbon-to-nitrogen ratio. Energy savings possible for mainstream processes incorporating these novel nitrogen removal processes include reduced process oxygen requirements from reduced biodegradable carbon loadings to the biological process and the potential that plant influent biodegradable carbon can be captured upstream of the biological nitrogen removal process and used to produce energy, for example, by conversion into biogas.

Biodegradability of wastewater and activated sludge organics in anaerobic digestion.The investigation provides experimental evidence that the unbiodegradable particulate organics fractions of primary sludge and waste activated sludge calculated from activated sludge models remain essentially unbiodegradable in anaerobic digestion. This was tested by feeding the waste activated sludge (WAS) from three different laboratory activated sludge (AS) systems to three separate anaerobic digesters (AD). Two of the AS systems were Modified Ludzack - Ettinger (MLE) nitrification-denitrification (ND) systems and the third was a membrane University of Cape Town (UCT) ND and enhanced biological P removal system. One of the MLE systems and the UCT system were fed the same real settled wastewater. The other MLE system was fed raw wastewater which was made by adding a measured constant flux (gCOD/d) of macerated primary sludge (PS) to the real settled wastewater. This PS was also fed to a fourth AD and a blend of PS and WAS from settled wastewater MLE system was fed to a fifth AD. The five ADs were each operated at five different sludge ages (10-60d). From the measured performance results of the AS systems, the unbiodegradable particulate organic (UPO) COD fractions of the raw and settled wastewaters, the PS and the WAS from the three AS systems were calculated with AS models. These AS model based UPO fractions of the PS and WAS were compared with the UPO fractions calculated from the performance results of the ADs fed these sludges. For the PS, the UPO fraction calculated from the AS and AD models matched closely, i.e. 0.30 and 0.31. Provided the UPO of heterotrophic (OHO, fE_OHO) and phosphorus accumulating (PAO, fE_PAO) biomass were accepted to be those associated with the death regeneration model of organism "decay", the UPO of the WAS calculated from the AS and AD models also matched well - if the steady state AS model fE_OHO = 0.20 and fE_PAO = 0.25 values were used, then the UPO fraction of the WAS calculated from the AS models deviated significantly from those calculated with the AD models. Therefore in plant wide wastewater treatment models the characterization of PS and WAS as defined by the AS models can be applied without modification in AD models. The observed rate limiting hydrolysis/acidogenesis rates of the sludges are listed.

Reducing agitation energy-consumption by improving rheological properties of corn stover substrate in anaerobic digestion.Rheological properties of corn stover substrate were investigated to explore agitation energy reduction potential for different total solid (TS) in anaerobic digestion. The effects of particle size and temperature on rheological properties and corresponding energy reduction were studied. The results indicated that corn stover slurry exhibited pseudo-plastic flow behavior at TS of 4.23-7.32%, and was well described by Power-law model. At TS of 4.23%, rheological properties were not obviously affected by particle size and temperature. However, when TS was increased to 7.32%, there was 10.37% shear stress reduction by size-reduction from 20 to 80-mesh, and 11.73% shear stress reduction by temperature-increase from 25 to 55 °C. PTS was advanced as variations of power consumption by TS-increase from 4.23% to 7.32%. There was 9.2% PTS-reduction by size-reduction from 20 to 80-mesh at 35 °C. Moreover, PTS-reduction of 10.3%/10 °C was achieved at 20-mesh compared with 9.0%/10 °C at 80-mesh.

Bacterially mediated removal of phosphorus and cycling of nitrate and sulfate in the waste stream of a "zero-discharge" recirculating mariculture system.Simultaneous removal of nitrogen and phosphorus by microbial biofilters has been used in a variety of water treatment systems including treatment systems in aquaculture. In this study, phosphorus, nitrate and sulfate cycling in the anaerobic loop of a zero-discharge, recirculating mariculture system was investigated using detailed geochemical measurements in the sludge layer of the digestion basin. High concentrations of nitrate and sulfate, circulating in the overlying water (∼15 mM), were removed by microbial respiration in the sludge resulting in a sulfide accumulation of up to 3 mM. Modelling of the observed S and O isotopic ratios in the surface sludge suggested that, with time, major respiration processes shifted from heterotrophic nitrate and sulfate reduction to autotrophic nitrate reduction. The much higher inorganic P content of the sludge relative to the fish feces is attributed to conversion of organic P to authigenic apatite. This conclusion is supported by: (a) X-ray diffraction analyses, which pointed to an accumulation of a calcium phosphate mineral phase that was different from P phases found in the feces, (b) the calculation that the pore waters of the sludge were highly oversaturated with respect to hydroxyapatite (saturation index = 4.87) and (c) there was a decrease in phosphate (and in the Ca/Na molar ratio) in the pore waters simultaneous with an increase in ammonia showing there had to be an additional P removal process at the same time as the heterotrophic breakdown of organic matter.

Mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion of sewage sludge and orange peel waste.Mesophilic anaerobic digestion is a treatment that is widely applied for sewage sludge management but has several disadvantages such as low methane yield, poor biodegradability and nutrient imbalance. In this paper, we propose orange peel waste as an easily biodegradable co-substrate to improve the viability of the process. Sewage sludge and orange peel waste were mixed at a proportion of 70:30 (wet weight), respectively. The stability was maintained within correct parameters throughout the process, while the methane yield coefficient and biodegradability were 165 L/kg volatile solids (VS) (0 degrees C, 1 atm) and 76% (VS), respectively. The organic loading rate (OLR) increased from 0.4 to 1.6kg VS/m3 d. Nevertheless, the OLR and methane production rate decreased at the highest loads, suggesting the occurrence of an inhibition phenomenon.

Exponential model describing methane production kinetics in batch anaerobic digestion: a tool for evaluation of biochemical methane potential assays.Biochemical methane potential assays, usually run in batch mode, are performed by numerous laboratories to characterize the anaerobic degradability of biogas substrates such as energy crops, agricultural residues, and organic wastes. Unfortunately, the data obtained from these assays lacks common, universal bases for comparison, because standard protocols did not diffuse to the entire scientific community. Results are usually provided as final values of the methane yields of substrates. However, methane production curves generated in these assays also provide useful information about substrate degradation kinetics, which is rarely exploited. A basic understanding of the kinetics of the biogas process may be a first step towards a convergence of the assay methodologies on an international level. Following this assumption, a modeling toolbox containing an exponential model adjusted with a simple data-fitting method has been developed. This model should allow (a) quality control of the assays according to the goodness of fit of the model onto data series generated from the digestion of standard substrates, (b) interpretation of substrate degradation kinetics, and (c) estimate of the ultimate methane yield at infinite time. The exponential model is based on two assumptions: (a) the biogas process is a two-step reaction yielding VFA as intermediate products, and methane as the final product, and (b) the digestible substrate can be divided into a rapidly degradable and a slowly degradable fraction.

Assessment of two-phase olive mill solid waste and microalgae co-digestion to improve methane production and process kinetics.Olive mill solid waste (OMSW) is a pollutant waste coming from olive oil elaboration by the two-phase centrifugation system. OMSW has a high organic matter content and unbalanced carbon to nitrogen (C/N) ratio, 31/1, which avoids obtaining high methane yields in the anaerobic digestion of this waste. In the present study a microalgae, Dunaliella salina, was employed as co-substrate for the OMSW anaerobic digestion in order to decrease the C/N ratio and increase its biodegradability. Different co-digestion mixtures (C/N ratios) were studied. The increase of D. salina from 25% to 50% in the co-digestion mixture clearly increased the biodegradability of the sole substrates. The highest biodegradability was found for the co-digestion mixture 50% OMSW-50% D. salina. Nevertheless, the maximum methane production, 330mLCH4/gVSadded, and the highest methane production rate were obtained for the co-digestion mixture 75% OMSW-25% D. salina, keeping a C/N ratio near to 26.7/1.

A methodology for a quantitative interpretation of DGGE with the help of mathematical modelling: application in biohydrogen production.Molecular biology techniques provide valuable insights in the investigation of microbial dynamics and evolution. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis is one of the most popular methods which have been used in bioprocess assessment. Most of the anaerobic digestion models consider several microbial populations as state variables. However, the difficulty of measuring individual species concentrations may cause inaccurate model predictions. The integration of microbial data and ecosystem modelling is currently a challenging issue for improved system control. A novel procedure that combines common experimental measurements, DGGE, and image analysis is presented in this study in order to provide a preliminary estimation of the actual concentration of the dominant bacterial ribotypes in a bioreactor, for further use as a variable in mathematical modelling of the bioprocess. This approach was applied during the start-up of a continuous anaerobic bioreactor for hydrogen production. The experimental concentration data were used for determining the kinetic parameters of each species, by using a multi-species chemostat-model. The model was able to reproduce the global trend of substrate and biomass concentrations during the reactor start-up, and predicted in an acceptable way the evolution of each ribotype concentration, depicting properly specific ribotype selection and extinction.

Predominance of cluster I Clostridium in hydrogen fermentation of galactose seeded with various heat-treated anaerobic sludges.To identify the key bacterial populations in hydrogen fermentation of galactose, a fermentor seeded with a heat-treated sludge was operated. After 27h of fermentation, the proportion of butyric acid increased to 69.4wt.% and the gas production yield reached 1.0molH2/molgalactose. In the pyrosequencing of 16S rDNA, an increase of the proportion of the phylum Firmicutes from 4.2% to 92% (mostly cluster I Clostridium) was observed. To verify the predominance and the ubiquity of the cluster, five fermentors seeded with different heat-treated anaerobic sludges having different feedstock compositions and digestion temperatures were investigated using qPCR analyses. The abundance of the cluster increased >100-fold during the fermentation, regardless of the inocula. Moreover, the abundance was negatively correlated with the lag time of hydrogen production and positively correlated with the hydrogen production rate, demonstrating the relevance of the cluster to hydrogen production. Taken together, the results clearly revealed the importance of cluster I Clostridium in the hydrogen fermentation of galactose.

Conventional mesophilic vs. thermophilic anaerobic digestion: a trade-off between performance and stability?A long-term comparative study using continuously-stirred anaerobic digesters (CSADs) operated at mesophilic and thermophilic temperatures was conducted to evaluate the influence of the organic loading rate (OLR) and chemical composition on process performance and stability. Cow manure was co-digested with dog food, a model substrate to simulate a generic, multi-component food-like waste and to produce non-substrate specific, composition-based results. Cow manure and dog food were mixed at a lower - and an upper co-digestion ratio to produce a low-fiber, high-strength substrate, and a more recalcitrant, lower-strength substrate, respectively. Three increasing OLRs were evaluated by decreasing the CSADs hydraulic retention time (HRT) from 20 to 10 days. At longer HRTs and lower manure-to-dog food ratio, the thermophilic CSAD was not stable and eventually failed as a result of long-chain fatty acid (LCFA) accumulation/degradation, which was triggered by the compounded effects of temperature on reaction rates, mixing intensity, and physical state of LCFAs. At shorter HRTs and upper manure-to-dog food ratio, the thermophilic CSAD marginally outperformed the biomethane production rates and substrate stabilization of the mesophilic CSAD. The increased fiber content relative to lipids at upper manure-to-dog food ratios improved the stability and performance of the thermophilic process by decreasing the concentration of LCFAs in solution, likely adsorbed onto the manure fibers. Overall, results of this study show that stability of the thermophilic co-digestion process is highly dependent on the influent substrate composition, and particularly for this study, on the proportion of manure to lipids in the influent stream. In contrast, mesophilic co-digestion provided a more robust and stable process regardless of the influent composition, only with marginally lower biomethane production rates (i.e., 7%) for HRTs as short as 10 days (OLR = 3 g VS/L-d).

A novel process simulation model (PSM) for anaerobic digestion using Aspen Plus.A novel process simulation model (PSM) was developed for biogas production in anaerobic digesters using Aspen Plus®. The PSM is a library model of anaerobic digestion, which predicts the biogas production from any substrate at any given process condition. A total of 46 reactions were used in the model, which include inhibitions, rate-kinetics, pH, ammonia, volume, loading rate, and retention time. The hydrolysis reactions were based on the extent of the reaction, while the acidogenic, acetogenic, and methanogenic reactions were based on the kinetics. The PSM was validated against a variety of lab and industrial data on anaerobic digestion. The P-value after statistical analysis was found to be 0.701, which showed that there was no significant difference between discrete validations and processing conditions. The sensitivity analysis for a ±10% change in composition of substrate and extent of reaction results in 5.285% higher value than the experimental value. The model is available at http://hdl.handle.net/2320/12358 (Rajendran et al., 2013b).

Neural and hybrid modeling: an alternative route to efficiently predict the behavior of biotechnological processes aimed at biofuels obtainment.The present paper was aimed at showing that advanced modeling techniques, based either on artificial neural networks or on hybrid systems, might efficiently predict the behavior of two biotechnological processes designed for the obtainment of second-generation biofuels from waste biomasses. In particular, the enzymatic transesterification of waste-oil glycerides, the key step for the obtainment of biodiesel, and the anaerobic digestion of agroindustry wastes to produce biogas were modeled. It was proved that the proposed modeling approaches provided very accurate predictions of systems behavior. Both neural network and hybrid modeling definitely represented a valid alternative to traditional theoretical models, especially when comprehensive knowledge of the metabolic pathways, of the true kinetic mechanisms, and of the transport phenomena involved in biotechnological processes was difficult to be achieved.

[Effect of schemes second line quadruple therapy on interactions of some protective factors in gastric mucosal tissue in experimental ulcer].THE AIM OF INVESTIGATION: To study the effect of schemes second line quadruple therapy on the state of gastric mucosal barrier and NO formation in experimental ulcer.
The study included 60 white male rats weighing 150-190 gr, mixed population. The effect of the standard second-line regimens on the content of the fractions of insoluble glycoproteins, on indicators of NO formation and anaerobic glycolysis in gastric mucosal tissue in experimental ulcer.
Quadruple therapy consisting of omeprazole, de-nol, amoxicillin and tetracycline stimulates mechanisms of protective barrier, which has a positive effect on the mechanisms of NO formation. Scheme with omeprazole, de-nol, tetracycline and metronidazole inhibits the synthesis of mucosal barrier, the key mechanisms of NO formation.
In the plan of correction of mechanisms of cytoprotection in the gastric mucosal tissue quadruple therapy with omeprazole, de ethanol, amoxicillin, and tetracycline is considered to be effective.

Anaerobic co-digestion of municipal biomass wastes and waste activated sludge: dynamic model and material balances.The organic matter degradation process during anaerobic co-digestion of municipal biomass waste (MBW) and waste-activated sludge (WAS) under different organic loading rates (OLRs) was investigated in bench-scale and pilot-scale semi-continuous stirred tank reactors. To better understand the degradation process of MBW and WAS co-digestion and provide theoretical guidance for engineering application, anaerobic digestion model No.1 was revised for the co-digestion of MBW and WAS. The results showed that the degradation of organic matter could be characterized into three different fractions, including readily hydrolyzable organics, easily degradable particulate organics, and recalcitrant particle organics. Hydrolysis was the rate-limiting step under lower OLRs, and methanogenesisis was the rate-limiting step for an OLR of 8.0 kg volatile solid (VS)/(m3 x day). The hydrolytic parameters of carbohydrate, protein, and lipids were 0.104, 0.083, and 0.084 kg chemical oxygen demand (COD)/(kg COD x hr), respectively, and the reaction rate parameters of lipid fermentation were 1 and 1.25 kg COD/(kg COD x hr) for OLRs of 4.0 and 6.0 kg VS/(m3 x day). A revised model was used to simulate methane yield, and the results fit well with the experimental data. Material balance data were acquired based on the revised model, which showed that 58.50% of total COD was converted to methane.

Anaerobic digestion characteristics of pig manures depending on various growth stages and initial substrate concentrations in a scaled pig farm in Southern China.The characteristics of anaerobic digestion of pig manure from different growth stages were investigated. According to growth stage, batch experiments were performed using gestating sow manure (GSM), swine nursery with post-weaned piglet manure (SNM), growing fattening manure (GFM) and mixed manure (MM) as substrates at four substrate concentrations (40, 50, 65 and 80gVS/L) under mesophilic conditions. The maximum methane yields of MM, SNM, GSM and GFM were 354.7, 328.7, 282.4 and 263.5mLCH4/gVSadded, respectively. Volatile fatty acids/total inorganic carbon (VFA/TIC) ratio increased from 0.10 to 0.89 when loading increased from 40 to 80gVS/L for GFM. The modified Gompertz model shows a better fit to the experimental results than the first order model with a lower difference between measured and predicted methane yields. The kinetic parameters indicated that the methane production curve on the basis of differences in biodegradability of the pig manure at different growth stages.

Application of super-twisting observers to the estimation of state and unknown inputs in an anaerobic digestion system.This paper presents the estimation of the unknown states and inputs of an anaerobic digestion system characterized by a two-step reaction model. The estimation is based on the measurement of the two substrate concentrations and of the outflow rate of biogas and relies on the use of an observer, consisting of three parts. The first is a generalized super-twisting observer, which estimates a linear combination of the two input concentrations. The second is an asymptotic observer, which provides one of the two biomass concentrations, whereas the third is a super-twisting observer for one of the input concentrations and the second biomass concentration.

The effects of alternative pretreatment strategies on anaerobic digestion and methane production from different algal strains.The effect of various pretreatment strategies on methane yields following anaerobic digestion (AD) of five different microalgal strains was investigated. Pavlova_cf sp., Tetraselmis sp. and Thalassiosira weissflogii exhibited substantial methane yields of 0.4-0.5L/g volatile solids (VS) without pretreatment, providing up to 75-80% of theoretical values. In contrast, methane yields from Chlorella sp. and Nannochloropsis sp. were around 0.35L/g VS, or 55-60% of the theoretical values, respectively. Alkali treatment was not effective and thermal pretreatment only enhanced Nannochloropsis methane yields. Thermochemical pretreatment had the strongest impact on biomass solubilization with methane yields increasing by 30% and 40% for Chlorella and Nannochloropsis, respectively. The lipid content had a strong beneficial impact on the theoretical and observed methane yields as compared to protein and carbohydrate content. Other features such as cell-wall composition are also likely to be important factors dictating algal biodegradability and methane yields addressed in part by thermochemical pretreatment.

Improvement of methane production from waste activated sludge by on-site photocatalytic pretreatment in a photocatalytic anaerobic fermenter.This paper reports a new technology that using on-site TiO2-photocatalytic pretreatment in the anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge (WAS) can enhance WAS degradation and methane production in a novel photocatalytic anaerobic fermenter. The fermenter consists of a photocatalytic unit and a digestion unit. The photocatalytic unit can constantly supply soluble organics and has less negative effect on the activity of methanogens at the optimal photocatalytic time of 4h per day. After anaerobic digestion for 35days, 1266.7ml/l-sludge of methane, 67.4% of volatile solid (VS) reduction and 60.5% of total chemical oxygen demand (TCOD) removal were achieved in the photocatalytic anaerobic fermenter, compared with 923.2ml/l-sludge of methane, 48.9% of VS reduction and 43.5% TCOD removal in the control fermenter. The results indicate that timely utilization of solubilized organics by methanogens could avoid further mineralization by TiO2-photocatalysis, which not only improves methane production but also enhances WAS degradation.

A review of wet air oxidation and Thermal Hydrolysis technologies in sludge treatment.With rapid world population growth and strict environmental regulations, increasingly large volumes of sludge are being produced in today's wastewater treatment plants (WWTP) with limited disposal routes. Sludge treatment has become an essential process in WWTP, representing 50% of operational costs. Sludge destruction and resource recovery technologies are therefore of great ongoing interest. Hydrothermal processing uses unique characteristics of water at elevated temperatures and pressures to deconstruct organic and inorganic components of sludge. It can be broadly categorized into wet oxidation (oxidative) and thermal hydrolysis (non-oxidative). While wet air oxidation (WAO) can be used for the final sludge destruction and also potentially producing industrially useful by-products such as acetic acid, thermal hydrolysis (TH) is mainly used as a pre-treatment method to improve the efficiency of anaerobic digestion. This paper reviews current hydrothermal technologies, roles of wet air oxidation and thermal hydrolysis in sludge treatment, and challenges faced by these technologies.

Quantifying contribution of synthrophic acetate oxidation to methane production in thermophilic anaerobic reactors by membrane inlet mass spectrometry.A unique method was developed and applied for monitoring methanogenesis pathways based on isotope labeled substrates combined with online membrane inlet quadrupole mass spectrometry (MIMS). In our study, a fermentation sample from a full-scale biogas plant fed with pig and cattle manure, maize silage, and deep litter was incubated with 100 mM of [2-(13)C] sodium acetate under thermophilic anaerobic conditions. MIMS was used to measure the isotopic distribution of dissolved CO2 and CH4 during the degradation of acetate, while excluding interference from water by applying a cold trap. After 6 days of incubation, the proportion of methane derived from reduction of CO2 had increased significantly and reached up to 87% of total methane, suggesting that synthrophic acetate oxidation coupled to hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis (SAO-HM) played an important role in the degradation of acetate. This study provided a new approach for online quantification of the relative contribution of methanogenesis pathways to methane production with a time resolution shorter than one minute. The observed contribution of SAO-HM to methane production under the tested conditions challenges the current widely accepted anaerobic digestion model (ADM1), which strongly emphasizes the importance of the acetoclastic methanogenesis.

Modelling the rheological properties of sludge during anaerobic digestion in a batch reactor by using electrical measurements.Anaerobic digestion is a significant process leading to biogas production and waste management. Despite this double interest, professionals still face a lack of efficient tools to monitor and manage the whole procedure. This is especially true for rheological properties of the material inside the reactor, which are of major importance for anaerobic digestion management. However, rheological properties can hardly be determined in-situ and it would be very helpful to determine indicators of their evolution. To solve this problem, this paper investigates the evolution of sewage sludge rheological and electrical properties during the anaerobic digestion in a batch reactor. We especially focus on apparent viscosity and complex impedance, measured by electrical impedance spectroscopy. Both of them can be modelled by a linear combination of raw sludge and inoculum properties, weighted by time-dependent coefficients. Thus, by determining digested sludge electrical signature, it is possible to obtain those coefficients and model sludge apparent viscosity. This work offers many theoretical and practical prospects.

Effect of feed to microbe ratios on anaerobic digestion of Chinese cabbage waste under mesophilic and thermophilic conditions: biogas potential and kinetic study.The objective of this study was to investigate the effect of the feed-to-microbe (F/M) ratios on anaerobic digestion of Chinese cabbage waste (CCW) generated from a kimchi factory. The batch test was conducted for 96 days under mesophilic (36.5 °C) (Experiment I) and thermophilic (55 °C) conditions (Experiment II) at F/M ratios of 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0. The first-order kinetic model was evaluated for methane yield. The biogas yield in terms of volatile solids (VS) added increased from 591 to 677 mL/g VS under mesophilic conditions and 434 to 639 mL/g VS under thermophilic conditions when the F/M ratio increased from 0.5 to 2.0. Similarly, the volumetric biogas production increased from 1.479 to 6.771 L/L under mesophilic conditions and from 1.086 to 6.384 L/L under thermophilic conditions when F/M ratio increased from 0.5 to 2.0. The VS removal increased from 59.4 to 75.6% under mesophilic conditions and from 63.5 to 78.3% under thermophilic conditions when the F/M ratio increased from 0.5 to 2.0. The first-order kinetic constant (k, 1/day) decreased under the mesophilic temperature conditions and increased under thermophilic conditions when the F/M ratio increased from 0.5 to 2.0. The difference between the experimental and predicted methane yield was in the range of 3.4-14.5% under mesophilic conditions and in the range of 1.1-3.0% under thermophilic conditions. The predicted methane yield derived from the first-order kinetic model was in good agreement with the experimental results.

Low-heat, mild alkaline pretreatment of switchgrass for anaerobic digestion.This study examines the effectiveness of alkaline pretreatment under mild heat conditions (100°C or 212°F) on the anaerobic co-digestion of switchgrass. The effects of alkaline concentration, types of alkaline, heating time and rinsing were evaluated. In addition to batch studies, continuous-feed studies were performed in triplicate to identify potential digester operational problems caused by switchgrass co-digestion while accounting for uncertainty due to digester variability. Few studies have examined anaerobic digestion of switchgrass or the effects of mild heating to enhance alkaline pretreatment prior to biomass digestion. Results indicate that pretreatment can significantly enhance digestion of coarse-ground (≤ 0.78 cm particle size) switchgrass. Energy conversion efficiency as high as 63% was observed, and was comparable or superior to fine-grinding as a pretreatment method. The optimal NaOH concentration was found to be 5.5% (wt/wt alkaline/biomass) with a 91.7% moisture level. No evidence of operational problems such as solids build-up, poor mixing, or floating materials were observed. These results suggest the use of waste heat from a generator could reduce the concentration of alkaline required to adequately pretreat lignocellulosic feedstock prior to anaerobic digestion.

Effect of moisture on disintegration kinetics during anaerobic digestion of complex organic substrates.The role of the moisture content and particle size (PS) on the disintegration of complex organic matter during the wet anaerobic digestion (AD) process was investigated. A range of total solids (TS) from 5% to 11.3% and PS from 0.25 to 15 mm was evaluated using carrot waste as model complex organic matter. The experimental results showed that the methane production rate decreased with higher TS and PS. A modified version of the AD model no.1 for complex organic substrates was used to model the experimental data. The simulations showed a decrease of the disintegration rate constants with increasing TS and PS. The results of the biomethanation tests were used to calibrate and validate the applied model. In particular, the values of the disintegration constant for various TS and PS were determined. The simulations showed good agreement between the numerical and observed data.

Modeling phosphorus removal and recovery from anaerobic digester supernatant through struvite crystallization in a fluidized bed reactor.The cost associated with the disposal of phosphate-rich sludge, the stringent regulations to limit phosphate discharge into aquatic environments, and resource shortages resulting from limited phosphorus rock reserves, have diverted attention to phosphorus recovery in the form of struvite (MAP: MgNH4PO4·6H2O) crystals, which can essentially be used as a slow release fertilizer. Fluidized-bed crystallization is one of the most efficient unit processes used in struvite crystallization from wastewater. In this study, a comprehensive mathematical model, incorporating solution thermodynamics, struvite precipitation kinetics and reactor hydrodynamics, was developed to illustrate phosphorus depletion through struvite crystal growth in a continuous, fluidized-bed crystallizer. A thermodynamic equilibrium model for struvite precipitation was linked to the fluidized-bed reactor model. While the equilibrium model provided information on supersaturation generation, the reactor model captured the dynamic behavior of the crystal growth processes, as well as the effect of the reactor hydrodynamics on the overall process performance. The model was then used for performance evaluation of the reactor, in terms of removal efficiencies of struvite constituent species (Mg, NH4 and PO4), and the average product crystal sizes. The model also determined the variation of species concentration of struvite within the crystal bed height. The species concentrations at two extreme ends (inlet and outlet) were used to evaluate the reactor performance. The model predictions provided a reasonably good fit with the experimental results for PO4-P, NH4-N and Mg removals. Predicated average crystal sizes also matched fairly well with the experimental observations. Therefore, this model can be used as a tool for performance evaluation and process optimization of struvite crystallization in a fluidized-bed reactor.

Model-based operational guidelines of a bioprocess for biological nitrogen removal and complete stabilisation of anaerobically digested sewage sludge.The concept of one-stage reactor system for biological nitrogen removal over nitrite of ammonium high loaded sidestreams is going to be applied to remove nitrogen from anaerobically digested sewage sludge and to achieve its complete stabilisation. Dealing with sludge, the organic matter needed to denitrify is present in the inflow as particulate substrate, which requires a hydrolysis step. The latter implies high anoxic hydraulic retention time (HRT). During both aerobic and anoxic phases, ammonium is released which implies the need to enlarge aerobic HRT. Both effects lead to a total HRT higher than those for nitrification-denitrification of wastewater with soluble substrate. The purpose of this paper is to define, by computer simulation, a set of theoretical criteria, which will be applied later to the operation of a pilot-scale post-aeration reactor to be located in a Spanish WWTP. These criteria will be defined by simulating the reactor performance under different operating conditions. As a conclusion, some operation guidelines have been established for the above-mentioned scenario in terms of aerobic and anoxic retention time, dissolved oxygen concentration and effluent requirements (NH(4)(+), NO(2)(-) and NO(3)(-)).

Kinetics of inactivation and dilution effects on the mass balance of fungal phytopathogens in anaerobic digesters.Knowledge of fate and behavior of plant pathogens in the biogas production chain is limited and hampers the estimation and evaluation of the potential phytosanitary risk if digestate is spread on arable land as a fertilizer. Therefore, simulation is an appropriate tool to demonstrate the effects which influence the steady state of pathogen infected plant material in both digesters and digestate. Simple approaches of kinetics of inactivation and mass balances of infected material were carried out considering single-step as well as two-step digestion. The simulation revealed a very fast to fast reduction of infected material after a singular feeding, reaching a cutback to less than 1% of input within 4 days even for D90-values of 68 h. Steady state mass balances below input rate could be calculated with D90-values of less than 2 h at a continuous hourly feeding. At higher D90-values steady state mass balances exceed the input rate but are still clearly below the sum of input mass. Dilution further decreases mass balances to values 10(-5) to 10(-6) Mg m(-3) for first-step digestion and 10(-8) to 10(-9) for second-step.

Assessment of factors influencing the biomethane yield of maize silages.A large set of maize silage samples was produced to assess the major traits influencing the biomethane production of this crop. The biomass yield, the volatile solids contents and the biochemical methane potential (BMP) were measured to calculate the biomethane yield per hectare (average=7266m(3)ha(-1)). The most influential factor controlling the biomethane yield was the cropping environment. The biomass yield had more impact than the anaerobic digestibility. Nevertheless, the anaerobic digestibility of maize silages was negatively affected by high VS content in mature maize. Late maturing maize varieties produced high biomass yield with high digestibility resulting in high biomethane yield per hectare. The BMP was predicted with good accuracy using solely the VS content.

Development of a simple model for anaerobic digestion based on preliminary measurements of the bacterial sulphur activity in wastewater stabilization ponds.The present study was undertaken to develop a simple and practical model for anaerobic digestion, encompassing sulphate reduction and sulphur oxidation, in a waste stabilization pond. The basic microbiological phases of the model consisted of four processes, namely acidogenesis, methanogenesis, sulphate reduction and sulphur oxidation. It also incorporated multiple reaction stoichiometry and substrate utilization kinetics. The study also aimed to investigate the mutual interaction between sulphate-reducing bacteria (SRB) and photosynthetic sulphur bacteria (PSB) in an anaerobic sludge consortia using batch reactors. The results revealed that for an initial concentration of sulphate ranging between 250 and 2800 mg x l(-1), SRB activity ranged between 20 and 190 mgSO4(2-)(reduced). The gVSS(-1) x d(-1) and PSB activity varied between 60 and 320 mgSO4(2-)(produced). gVSS(-1) x d(-1), and PSB activity was noted to be twice as high as that of SRB. PSB can, therefore, be used effectively in the fight against odors. The most important environmental factors affecting the sulphur cycle in the waste stabilization pond were likely to be the availability of sulphate and light for SRB and PSB, respectively.

Biogas plasticization coupled anaerobic digestion: the anaerobic pump stoichiometry.This paper presents the stoichiometry section of a bioenergetics investigation into the biogas plasticization of wastewater sludge using the Anaerobic Pump (TAP). Three residue samples, an input substrate and two residual products, were collected from two side by side operated AD systems, a conventional continuous flow and stirred reactor, and TAP, and submitted for elemental and calorimetric analyses. The elemental compositions of the residues were fitted to a heterotrophic metabolism model [1] for both systems. To facilitate balanced stoichiometric models, a simple "cell" correction computation separates measured residual composites into "real" residual composition and cell growth (C5H7NO2) components. The elemental data and model results show that the TAP stage II residual composition (C1H0.065O0.0027N0.036) was nearly devoid of hydrogen and oxygen, leaving only fixed carbon and cells grown as the composition of the remaining mass. This quantitative evidence supports prior measurements of very high methane yields from TAP stage II reactor during steady-state experiments [2]. All performance parameters derived from the stoichiometric model(s) showed good agreement with measured steady-state averaged values. These findings are strong evidence that plasticization-disruption (TAP) cycle is the mechanism responsible for the observed increases in methane yield. The accuracy achieved by the stoichiometry models qualifies them for thermodynamic analysis to obtain potentials and bioconversion efficiencies. How applied pressure causes matrix conformation changes triggered by a functional consequence (plasticization and disruption) is this study's essential focus.

Three-stage continuous culture system with a self-generated anaerobia to study the regionalized metabolism of the human gut microbiota.The technical and ethical difficulties in studying the gut microbiota in vivo warrant the development and improvement of in vitro systems able to simulate and control the physicochemical factors of the gut biology. Moreover, the functional regionalization of this organ implies a model simulating these differences. Here we propose an improved and alternative three-stage continuous bioreactor called 3S-ECSIM (three-stage Environmental Control System for Intestinal Microbiota) to study the human large intestine. Its main feature compared with other in vitro systems is the anaerobic atmosphere originating directly from the microbiota metabolism, leading to different gas ratios of CO2 and H2 in each compartment. Analyses of the metabolic and microbiological profiles (LC-MS and a phylogenetic microarray) show different profiles together with a maintenance of this differentiation between the three compartments, simulating respectively a proximal, a transversal and a distal colon. Moreover, the last reactor presents a high similarity with the initial fecal sample, at the microbiological diversity level. Based on our results, this in-vitro process improvement is a valuable alternative tool to dynamically study the structure and metabolism of gut microbiota, and its response to nutrients, prebiotics, probiotics, drugs or xenobiotics.

Modeling anaerobic digestion of blue algae: stoichiometric coefficients of amino acids acidogenesis and thermodynamics analysis.In order to facilitate the application of Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1), an approach for a detailed calculation of stoichiometric coefficients for amino acids acidogenesis during the anaerobic digestion of blue algae is presented. The simulation results obtained support the approach by good predictions of the dynamic behavior of cumulative methane production, pH values as well as the concentrations of acetate, propionate, butyrate, valerate and inorganic nitrogen. The sensitivity analysis based on Monte Carlo simulation showed that the stoichiometric coefficients for amino acids acidogenesis had high sensitivities to the outputs of the model. The model further indicated that the Gibbs free energies from the uptake of long-chain fatty acids (LCFA), valerate and butyrate were positive through the digestion, while the free energies for other components were negative. During the digestion, the cumulative heat productions from microbial activities and methane were 77.69 kJ and 185.76 kJ, respectively. This result suggested that proper heat preservation of anaerobic digesters could minimize the external heating needs due to the heat produced from microbial activities.

Cardiopulmonary exercise variables are associated with postoperative morbidity after major colonic surgery: a prospective blinded observational study.Postoperative complications are associated with reduced fitness. Cardiopulmonary exercise testing (CPET) has been used in risk stratification. We investigated the relationship between preoperative CPET and in-hospital morbidity in major colonic surgery.
We prospectively studied 198 patients undergoing major colonic surgery (excluding neoadjuvant cancer therapy), performing preoperative CPET (reported blind to clinical state), and recording morbidity (assessed blind to CPET), postoperative outcome, and length of stay.
Of 198 patients, 62 were excluded: 11 had emergency surgery, 25 had no surgery, 23 had incomplete data, and three were unable to perform CPET. One hundred and thirty-six (89 males, 47 females) were available for analysis. The median age was 71 [inter-quartile range (IQR) 62-77] yr. Sixty-five patients (48%) had a complication at day 5 after operation. Measurements significantly lower in patients with complications than those without were O2 uptake (VO₂) at estimated lactate threshold (θ(L)) [median 9.9 (IQR 8.3-12.7) vs 11.2 (9.5-14.2) ml kg(-1) min(-1), P<0.01], VO₂ at peak [15.2 (12.6-18.1) vs 17.2 (13.7-22.5) ml kg(-1) min(-1), P=0.01], and ventilatory equivalent for CO2 (V(E)/VCO₂) at θ(L) [31.3 (28.0-34.8) vs 33.9 (30.0-39.1), P<0.01]. A final multivariable logistic regression model contained VO₂ at θ(L) {one-point change odds ratio (OR) 0.77 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.66-0.89], P<0.0005; two-point change OR 0.61 (0.46-0.81) and gender [OR 4.42 (1.78-9.88), P=0.001]}, and was reasonably able to discriminate those with and without complications (AUC 0.71, CI 0.62-0.80, 68% sensitivity, 65% specificity).
CPET variables are associated with postoperative morbidity. A multivariable model with VO₂ at θ(L) and gender discriminates those with complications after colonic surgery.

Effect of outdoor conditions on Nannochloropsis salina cultivation in artificial seawater using nutrients from anaerobic digestion effluent.The effects of simulated outdoor seasonal climatic conditions on Nannochloropsis salina (N. salina) grown using nutrients from anaerobic digestion (AD) effluent were evaluated in this study. Under various light exposure (LE) and temperature (10-30 °C) conditions, N. salina specific growth rate (μ) was strongly affected by LE. Light availability (LA) was observed to be crucial for biomass production, with μ values of 0.038±0.013 d(-1), 0.093±0.013 d(-1), and 0.151±0.021 d(-1) for 6-h, 12-h, and 24-h LA conditions, respectively. Temperature (10-25 °C) was not significant in affecting the light dependent growth coefficient (μ/LE), indicating the suitability of culturing this strain in the Ohio climate. Cultures exposed to low illumination had significantly higher unsaturated fatty acid content than those under high illumination, with nearly 29% higher eicosapentaenoic acid (C20:5) content. Using LE and light attenuation resulted in adequate prediction of N. salina growth in a 1000 L open raceway pond.

Mesophilic batch anaerobic co-digestion of fruit-juice industrial waste and municipal waste sludge: process and cost-benefit analysis.The feasibility of anaerobic co-digestion of two juice-based beverage industrial wastes, screen cake (SC) and thickened waste activated sludge (TWAS), along with municipal sludge cake (MC) was investigated. Experiments were conducted in twenty mesophilic batch 160 ml serum bottles with no inhibition occurred. The statistical analysis proved that the substrate type had statistically significant effect on both ultimate biogas and methane yields (P=0.0003<0.05). The maximum and minimum ultimate cumulative methane yields were 890.90 and 308.34 mL/g-VSremoved from the digesters containing only TWAS and SC as substrate. First-order reaction model well described VS utilization in all digesters. The first 2-day and 10-day specific biodegradation rate constants were statistically higher in the digesters containing SC (P=0.004<0.05) and MC (P=0.0005<0.05), respectively. The cost-benefit analysis showed that the capital, operating and total costs can be decreased by 21.5%, 29.8% and 27.6%, respectively using a co-digester rather than two separate digesters.

The P2Y6 receptor mediates Clostridium difficile toxin-induced CXCL8/IL-8 production and intestinal epithelial barrier dysfunction.C. difficile is a Gram-positive spore-forming anaerobic bacterium that is the leading cause of nosocomial diarrhea in the developed world. The pathogenesis of C. difficile infections (CDI) is driven by toxin A (TcdA) and toxin B (TcdB), secreted factors that trigger the release of inflammatory mediators and contribute to disruption of the intestinal epithelial barrier. Neutrophils play a key role in the inflammatory response and the induction of pseudomembranous colitis in CDI. TcdA and TcdB alter cytoskeletal signaling and trigger the release of CXCL8/IL-8, a potent neutrophil chemoattractant, from intestinal epithelial cells; however, little is known about the surface receptor(s) that mediate these events. In the current study, we sought to assess whether toxin-induced CXCL8/IL-8 release and barrier dysfunction are driven by the activation of the P2Y6 receptor following the release of UDP, a danger signal, from intoxicated Caco-2 cells. Caco-2 cells express a functional P2Y6 receptor and release measurable amounts of UDP upon exposure to TcdA/B. Toxin-induced CXCL8/IL-8 production and release were attenuated in the presence of a selective P2Y6 inhibitor (MRS2578). This was associated with inhibition of TcdA/B-induced activation of NFκB. Blockade of the P2Y6 receptor also attenuated toxin-induced barrier dysfunction in polarized Caco-2 cells. Lastly, pretreating mice with the P2Y6 receptor antagonists (MSR2578) attenuated TcdA/B-induced inflammation and intestinal permeability in an intrarectal toxin exposure model. Taken together these data outline a novel role for the P2Y6 receptor in the induction of CXCL8/IL-8 production and barrier dysfunction in response to C. difficile toxin exposure and may provide a new therapeutic target for the treatment of CDI.

Prediction of anaerobic biodegradability and bioaccessibility of municipal sludge by coupling sequential extractions with fluorescence spectroscopy: towards ADM1 variables characterization.Advanced dynamic anaerobic digestion models, such as ADM1, require both detailed organic matter characterisation and intimate knowledge of the involved metabolic pathways. In the current study, a methodology for municipal sludge characterization is investigated to describe two key parameters: biodegradability and bioaccessibility of organic matter. The methodology is based on coupling sequential chemical extractions with 3D fluorescence spectroscopy. The use of increasingly strong solvents reveals different levels of organic matter accessibility and the spectroscopy measurement leads to a detailed characterisation of the organic matter. The results obtained from testing 52 municipal sludge samples (primary, secondary, digested and thermally treated) showed a successful correlation with sludge biodegradability and bioaccessibility. The two parameters, traditionally obtained through the biochemical methane potential (BMP) lab tests, are now obtain in only 5 days compared to the 30-60 days usually required. Experimental data, obtained from two different laboratory scale reactors, were used to validate the ADM1 model. The proposed approach showed a strong application potential for reactor design and advanced control of anaerobic digestion processes.

Assessing the influence of reactor system design criteria on the performance of model colon fermentation units.Fermentation reactor systems are a key platform in studying intestinal microflora, specifically with respect to questions surrounding the effects of diet. In this study, we develop computational representations of colon fermentation reactor systems as a way to assess the influence of three design elements (number of reactors, emptying mechanism, and inclusion of microbial immobilization) on three performance measures (total biomass density, biomass composition, and fibre digestion efficiency) using a fractional-factorial experimental design. It was determined that the choice of emptying mechanism showed no effect on any of the performance measures. Additionally, it was determined that none of the design criteria had any measurable effect on reactor performance with respect to biomass composition. It is recommended that model fermentation systems used in the experimenting of dietary effects on intestinal biomass composition be streamlined to only include necessary system design complexities, as the measured performance is not benefited by the addition of microbial immobilization mechanisms or semi-continuous emptying scheme. Additionally, the added complexities significantly increase computational time during simulation experiments. It was also noted that the same factorial experiment could be directly adapted using in vitro colon fermentation systems.

Study on anaerobic treatment of hazardous steel-mill waste rolling oil (SmWRO) for multi-benefit disposal route.Steel-mill waste rolling oil (SmWRO) is considered as hazardous substance with high treatment and disposal fees. Anaerobic process could not only transform the hazardous substance into activated sludge, but also generate valuable biogas. This study aimed at studying the biochemical methane potential of SmWRO under inoculum to substrate VS ratios (ISRs) of 0.25, 0.5, 1, 1.5, 2 and 3 using septic tank sludge as inoculum in mesophilic and thermophilic conditions, with blank tests for control. Specific biogas yield (mL/g VS(added)), net biogas yield (mL/g VS(removed)) and VS removal were analyzed. The ANOVA results indicated great influence of ISR and temperature on studied parameters. ISR of 1.5 at 55°C and ISR of 1.5 and 2 at 35°C were suggested with the highest specific biogas yield (262-265 and 303mL/g VS(added)). Kinetic analysis showed that Gompertz model fit the experimental data best with the least RMSE and largest R(2).

Hypoxia induces the expression of transketolase-like 1 in human colorectal cancer.Transketolase-like (TKTL) 1 is one of the key enzymes for anaerobic sugar degradation even in the presence of oxygen (aerobic glycolysis). Transketolase-dependent reactions supply malignant tumors with ribose and NADPH. Therefore, TKTL1 activity could be crucial for tumor proliferation and survival. The aim of the study was to evaluate the expression of TKTL1 in colorectal cancer (CRC) and its regulation under hypoxic conditions.
We studied TKTL1 mRNA and protein expression in CRC cell lines and human CRC biopsies by quantitative real-time PCR, Western blotting and immunohistochemistry. Regulation of TKTL1 under oxygen depletion was analyzed by cultivating cells either in a three-dimensional spheroid model or in a hypoxia incubator chamber.
TKTL1 mRNA was heterogeneously expressed in monolayers of cells with high levels in HT-29 and SW480. TKTL1 protein was also clearly detectable in HT-29 and SW480. Hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF)-1α protein expression correlated with TKTL1 protein expression in SW480 spheroids over time. On the one hand, induction of hypoxia in T84 spheroids did not induce TKTL1; on the other hand, hypoxia by incubation at 1% O₂ in a hypoxia incubator chamber clearly showed an upregulation of TKTL1. In 50% of CRC patients, TKTL1 protein expression was upregulated in tumor compared to non-tumor tissue. The immunohistochemical staining of TKTL1 in CRC patient samples resulted in 14 positive and 30 negative samples.
TKTL1 expression correlated with HIF-1α protein expression and was induced upon hypoxic conditions which could facilitate energy supply to tumors under these circumstances.

Anaerobic digestion of selected Italian agricultural and industrial residues (grape seeds and leather dust): combined methane production and digestate characterization.A combined experimental evaluation of methane production (obtained by anaerobic digestion) and detailed digestate characterization (with physical-chemical, thermo-gravimetric and mineralogical approaches) was conducted on two organic substrates, which are specific to Italy (at regional and national levels). One of the substrates was grape seeds, which have an agricultural origin, whereas the other substrate was vegetable-tanned leather dust, which has an industrial origin. Under the assumed experimental conditions of the performed lab-scale test series, the grape seed substrate exhibited a resulting net methane production of 175.0 NmL g volatile solids (VS)(-1); hence, it can be considered as a potential energy source via anaerobic digestion. Conversely, the net methane production obtained from the anaerobic digestion of the vegetable-tanned leather dust substrate was limited to 16.1 NmL gVS(-1). A detailed characterization of the obtained digestates showed that there were both nitrogen-containing compounds and complex organic compounds present in the digestate that was obtained from the mixture of leather dust and inoculum. As a general perspective of this experimental study, the application of diversified characterization analyzes could facilitate (1) a better understanding of the main properties of the obtained digestates to evaluate their potential valorization, and (2) a combination of the digestate characteristics with the corresponding methane productions to comprehensively evaluate the bioconversion process.

Steam pretreatment of spruce forest residues: optimal conditions for biogas production and enzymatic hydrolysis.Steam refining of non-debarked spruce forest residues was investigated as pretreatment for enzymatic hydrolysis as well as for biogas production. Pretreatment conditions were varied in the range of 190-220 °C, 5-10 min and 0-3.7% SO₂ according to a statistical design. For both applications highest product yields were predicted at 220 °C and 2.4% SO₂, whereas the reaction time had only a minor influence. The conformity of the model results allows the conclusion that enzymatic hydrolysis is a suitable test method to evaluate the degradability of lignocellulosic biomass in the biogas process. In control experiments under optimal conditions the results of the model were verified. The yield of total monomeric carbohydrates after enzymatic hydrolysis was equivalent to 55% of all theoretically available polysaccharides. The corresponding biogas yield from the pretreated wood amounted to 304 mL/gODM. Furthermore, furans produced under optimal process conditions showed no inhibitory effect on biogas production. It can be concluded that steam refining opens the structure of wood, thus improving the enzymatic hydrolysis of the polysaccharides to fermentable monomeric sugars and subsequently enabling a higher and faster production of biogas. Anaerobic fermentation of pretreated wood is a serious alternative to alcoholic fermentation especially when low quality wood grades and residues are used. Anaerobic digestion should be further investigated in order to diversify the biorefinery options for lignocellulosic materials.

Biogas production from co-digestion of corn stover and chicken manure under anaerobic wet, hemi-solid, and solid state conditions.Corn stover (CS) and chicken manure (CM) are ubiquitous agricultural wastes at low cost and have the potential to achieve a nutrient-balance when mixed together to produce biomethane via anaerobic digestion (AD). The main objective of this work was to investigate methane production at different CS to CM ratios and to evaluate the process stability under wet (W-AD), hemi-solid state (HSS-AD) and solid state (SS-AD) conditions. Results showed that synergistic effects were found when mixing two substrates at CS:CM ratios of 3:1 and 1:1 (on volatile solid basis). The highest methane yield of 218.8 mL/g VS added was achieved in W-AD at CS:CM ratio of 3:1. In SS-AD, the highest volumetric methane productivity of 14.2L methane/L reactor volume was found at CS:CM of 1:1. The results of this work provide useful information to improve the efficiency and stability of co-digestion of CS and CM under different AD conditions.

Predicting kinetic model of biogas production and biodegradability organic materials: biogas production from vinasse at variation of COD/N ratio.The biogas fermentation of vinasse (TS 7.015 ± 0.007%) was investigated within a wide range of COD (Chemical Oxygen Demand)/N (Total Nitrogen) ratio. Urea (46% nitrogen content) was added into substrate to adjust COD/N ratio of 400/7-700/7. This study used batch anaerobic digesters in laboratory-scale that were operated at room temperature in 60 days. The results showed that control variable, 400/7, 500/7, 600/7, 700/7 generated total biogas of 107.45, 123.87, 133.82, 139.17, 113.27 mL/g COD and had the value of COD removal of 31.274 ± 0.887, 33.483 ± 0.266, 36.573 ± 1.689, 38.088 ± 0.872, 32.714 ± 0.881%, respectively. Variable with COD/N ratio of 600/7 was the best variable. In the kinetic model of biogas production, variable with COD/N of 600/7 had kinetic constant of A (mL/g COD), μ (mL/g COD.day), λ (days) of 132.580, 15.200, 0.213, respectively. The model equation of kinetic of biodegradability organic materials obtained was [formula in text].

Biokinetic and molecular studies of methanogens in phased anaerobic digestion systems.The influence of differing operational conditions of two-stage digesters on biokinetic characteristics and communities of methanogenic archaea was evaluated. Operating temperature of each phase influenced the archaeal communities significantly. Also, a strong correlation was observed between community composition and temperature and pH. The maximum specific substrate utilization rates (k max) of acetoclastic methanogens in the mesophilic and thermophilic 1st phases were 11.4 and 22.0 mgCOD mgCOD(-1)d(-1), respectively, whereas significantly lower k max values were estimated for the mesophilic and thermophilic 2nd-phase digesters which were 7.6 and 16.6 mgCOD mgCOD(-1)d(-1), respectively. It appeared that the biokinetic characteristics of the acetoclastic methanogen communities were reliant on digester loading rates. Also, higher temperature dependency coefficients (θ) were observed for the long retention time digesters when compared to the values computed for the 1st-phase digesters. Accordingly, the implementation of two sets of biokinetic parameters for acetoclastic methanogen will improve modeling of phased anaerobic digesters.

Starch structure modulates metabolic activity and gut microbiota profile.Normal maize starch and high amylose maize starch (HAS) either in native or thermally treated forms were used to investigate the effect of starch structure on the production of metabolites and gut microbiota profile using an anaerobic in vitro system. The changes in starch structure during fermentation were investigated using scanning electron microscopy (SEM), high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) and Fourier transform infra-red spectroscopy (FTIR). The native normal starch showed a porous structure during fermentation, indicating it was quickly metabolized by gut bacteria, whereas the HAS showed a smooth structure, suggesting it was utilized gradually. HPLC chromatography showed that amylose fraction with low molecular weight (MW) had a higher resistance to be fermented by gut bacteria than other starch molecular fractions. Thermal treatment enhanced starch fermentation kinetics, especially for amylopectin and high MW amylose fractions. FTIR analysis suggests that the structure of the normal starch, either in native or thermally treated, was less organized compared to HAS, and this structural character led to the normal starch to be utilized more quickly by gut bacteria with a faster increase in the IR ratio 1047/1022 cm(-1) (P < 0.01) during fermentation. The measurement of metabolic activity indicates that the normal starch with a less organized structure was utilized faster and generated more acetate and lactate during fermentation; HAS with a highly organized structure was more likely to produce butyrate, corresponding the significant increase (P < 0.001) in the populations of butyrate-producing strains (Faecalibacterium prausnitzii and Eubacterium hallii) in the cultures. This study reveals that fermentation kinetics of starch substrate is one of important characteristics for manipulating gut microbiota fermentation behaviours.

Life cycle assessment of energy from waste via anaerobic digestion: a UK case study.Particularly in the UK, there is potential for use of large-scale anaerobic digestion (AD) plants to treat food waste, possibly along with other organic wastes, to produce biogas. This paper presents the results of a life cycle assessment to compare the environmental impacts of AD with energy and organic fertiliser production against two alternative approaches: incineration with energy production by CHP and landfill with electricity production. In particular the paper investigates the dependency of the results on some specific assumptions and key process parameters. The input Life Cycle Inventory data are specific to the Greater London area, UK. Anaerobic digestion emerges as the best treatment option in terms of total CO2 and total SO2 saved, when energy and organic fertiliser substitute non-renewable electricity, heat and inorganic fertiliser. For photochemical ozone and nutrient enrichment potentials, AD is the second option while incineration is shown to be the most environmentally friendly solution. The robustness of the model is investigated with a sensitivity analysis. The most critical assumption concerns the quantity and quality of the energy substituted by the biogas production. Two key issues affect the development and deployment of future anaerobic digestion plants: maximising the electricity produced by the CHP unit fuelled by biogas and to defining the future energy scenario in which the plant will be embedded.

Does anaerobic bacterial antibiosis decrease fungal diversity in oral necrobacillosis disease?Oral necrobacillosis (ON) is a model polymicrobial disease that affects macropods in captivity and livestock. Several studies in humans and animals have focused mainly on the bacterial etiology of this disease with little or no information on the role/association of fungi with ON. Using a Polymerase Chain Reaction-Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE) assay and statistical analysis of the fungal community structure in healthy and disease groups, a reduction in the species diversity and drastic reduction (>1000 fold) in the fungal population in wallabies with ON was observed. Furthermore, an in vitro assay revealed a potential anaerobic-bacteria antibiosis mechanism in the observed decrease in fungal population in ON and a synergistic bacterial-fungal interaction in wallabies with healthy oral status. This study contributes to our knowledge of the fungal community structure associated with ON and forms the basis for an investigation at an epidemiological scale in order to exploit the clinical potentials of these findings.

Co-digestion to support low temperature anaerobic pretreatment of municipal sewage in a UASB-digester.The aim of this work was to demonstrate that co-digestion improves soluble sewage COD removal efficiency in treatment of low temperature municipal sewage by a UASB-digester system. A pilot scale UASB-digester system was applied to treat real municipal sewage, and glucose was chosen as a model co-substrate. Co-substrate was added in the sludge digester to produce additional methanogenic biomass, which was continuously recycled to inoculate the UASB reactor. Soluble sewage COD removal efficiency increased from 6 to 23%, which was similar to its biological methane potential (BMP). Specific methanogenic activity of the UASB and of the digester sludge at 15°C tripled to a value respectively of 43 and 39 mg CH4-COD/(g VSS d). Methane production in the UASB reactor increased by more than 90% due to its doubled methanogenic capacity. Therefore, co-digestion is a suitable approach to support a UASB-digester for pretreatment of low temperature municipal sewage.

Thermal pretreatment and hydraulic retention time in continuous digesters fed with sewage sludge: assessment using the ADM1.Thermal pretreatment is an interesting technique not only for increasing sludge biodegradability, leading to higher methane productivity, but also for improving degradation rates, allowing full-scale plants to reduce the size of digesters. In this study, the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) was used as a tool to assess the effects of thermal pretreatment and hydraulic retention time (HRT) on the performance of three pilot-scale digesters fed with mixed sludge with/without pretreatment applied to the waste activated sludge fraction. Calibration procedures using batch tests showed an increase of up to five times in the model disintegration coefficient due to the pretreatment, and the validations performed presented good accuracy with the experimental data, with under/overestimation lower than 15% in both average and global accumulated CH4 productions. Therefore, the ADM1 demonstrated its feasibility and usefulness in predicting and assessing the behavior of the digesters under these conditions.

Generalised modelling approach for anaerobic co-digestion of fermentable substrates.A general methodology to implement fermentable soluble substrates in the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) that extends its application to anaerobic co-digestion of multiple substrates is presented. The approach considers the fermentation of new soluble substrates, not originally described in ADM1, as channelled through mass- and electron-balanced sugar fermentation equivalent reactions, and that fermentable substrates are degraded by a generic group of fermenters instead of the original ADM1 sugar fermenters. Therefore, no additional microbial group state is required. An additional term that modifies the ADM1 sugar fermentation kinetics equation was included to account for the competition among multiple substrates to be degraded by a particular biomass group. The model was validated at pilot scale treating a blend of pig manure (soluble fraction), wine and gelatine at mesophilic conditions. Only the ADM1 acetoclastic ammonia inhibition parameter was calibrated to obtain consistent model prediction of gas and liquid composition.

Rapid extraction of total RNA from an anaerobic sludge biocoenosis.In order to assess the activity of metabolic pathways during anaerobic biogas production, it is necessary to isolate total RNA from the anaerobic sludge. mRNA activity profiling complements the quantification of excreted metabolites for a comprehensive anaerobic digestion model (ADM1). Four non-commercial total RNA extraction protocols were examined to extract total RNA from suspended solids of anaerobic sludge. The most suitable protocol was identified and optimised. In relation to total RNA extraction efficiency, total RNA purity and RNA integrity, the best homogenisation method was a combined method of nitrogen grinding and bead beating. When bead beating or nitrogen grinding was used alone for homogenisation, total RNA extraction efficiency was lower than when both homogenisation methods were applied. Depending on the homogenisation method, the whole RNA extraction procedure takes approximately 2 to 3 h, which is as fast as when using commercial available soil RNA extraction kits. The proposed method is rapid in extracting total RNA from a biocoenosis present in an anaerobic sludge environment. Furthermore, we could apply any of the extracted homogenization methods for reverse transcription and subsequent PCR amplification of the gene for the methyl coenzyme M reductase alpha subunit (mcrA/mrtA).

Sludge accumulation and conversion to methane in a septic tank treating domestic wastewater or black water.Although the septic tank is the most applied on-site system for wastewater pre-treatment, limited research has been performed to determine sludge accumulation and biogas production in the tank. Therefore a dynamic mathematical model based on the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) was developed for anaerobic digestion of the accumulated sludge in a septic tank treating domestic wastewater or black water. The results showed that influent chemical oxygen demand (COD) concentration and hydraulic retention time (HRT) of the tank mainly control the filling time with sludge, while operational temperature governs characteristics of the accumulated sludge and conversion to methane. For obtaining stable sludge and high conversion, the tank needs to be operated for a period more than a year without sludge wasting. Maximum conversion to methane in the tank is about 50 and 60% for domestic wastewater and black water, respectively. The required period for sludge wasting depends on the influent COD concentration and the HRT, while characteristics of the wasted sludge are affected by operational temperature followed by the influent COD concentration and the HRT. Sludge production from the tank ranges between 0.19 to 0.22 and 0.13 to 0.15 L/(person.d), for the domestic wastewater and black water, respectively.

Physiological and functional characteristics of Propionibacterium strains of the poultry microbiota and relevance for the development of probiotic products.The prevention and control of pathogens colonization through probiotics administration in poultry feeding is of increasing interest. The genus Propionibacterium is an attractive candidate for the development of probiotic cultures as they produce short chain fatty acids (SCFA) by carbohydrates fermentation. The presence of strains of this genus in hens of conventional production systems and backyard hens was investigated. Propionibacteria were isolated from the intestine and identified by physiological and biochemical tests. PCR amplification of the 16S rRNA gene of the isolates was performed and products were compared with sequences from databases. The presence of the genus Propionibacterium was demonstrated in 26% of hens and Propionibacterium acidipropionici and Propionibacterium avidum were the identified species. A comparative study of their physiological and functional characteristics was performed. P. acidipropionici strains were the most resistant to in vitro gastrointestinal digestion, but the adhesion to intestinal tissue was strain dependent. Some differences were found between both species with respect to their growth and SCFA production in an in vitro cecal water model, but all the strains were metabolically active. The production of SCFA in cecal slurries inoculated with the strain P. acidipropionici LET 105 was 30% higher than in non-inoculated samples. SCFA concentrations obtained were high enough to inhibit Salmonella enterica serovar Enteritidis when assayed in a cecal water model. P. acidipropionici LET 105 was also able to compete with Salmonella for adhesion sites on the intestinal mucosa in ex vivo assays. Results contribute to the knowledge of the species diversity of the genus Propionibacterium in the intestine of poultry and provide evidence of their potential for probiotics products development.

Balancing effluent quality, economic cost and greenhouse gas emissions during the evaluation of (plant-wide) control/operational strategies in WWTPs.The objective of this paper was to show the potential additional insight that result from adding greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions to plant performance evaluation criteria, such as effluent quality (EQI) and operational cost (OCI) indices, when evaluating (plant-wide) control/operational strategies in wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs). The proposed GHG evaluation is based on a set of comprehensive dynamic models that estimate the most significant potential on-site and off-site sources of CO₂, CH₄ and N₂O. The study calculates and discusses the changes in EQI, OCI and the emission of GHGs as a consequence of varying the following four process variables: (i) the set point of aeration control in the activated sludge section; (ii) the removal efficiency of total suspended solids (TSS) in the primary clarifier; (iii) the temperature in the anaerobic digester; and (iv) the control of the flow of anaerobic digester supernatants coming from sludge treatment. Based upon the assumptions built into the model structures, simulation results highlight the potential undesirable effects of increased GHG production when carrying out local energy optimization of the aeration system in the activated sludge section and energy recovery from the AD. Although off-site CO₂ emissions may decrease, the effect is counterbalanced by increased N₂O emissions, especially since N₂O has a 300-fold stronger greenhouse effect than CO₂. The reported results emphasize the importance and usefulness of using multiple evaluation criteria to compare and evaluate (plant-wide) control strategies in a WWTP for more informed operational decision making.

Anaerobic digestion of seven different sewage sludges: a biodegradability and modelling study.Seven mixed sewage sludges from different wastewater treatment plants, which have an anaerobic digester in operation, were evaluated in order to clarify the literature uncertainty with regard to the sewage sludge characterisation and biodegradability. Moreover, a methodology is provided to determine the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 parameters, coefficients and initial state variables as well as a discussion about the accuracy of the first order solubilisation constant, which was obtained through biomethane potential test. The results of the biomethane potential tests showed ultimate methane potentials from 188 to 214 mL CH4 g(-1) CODfed, COD removals between 58 and 65% and two homogeneous groups for the first order solubilisation constant: (i) the lowest rate group from 0.23 to 0.35 day(-1) and (ii) the highest rate group from 0.27 to 0.43 day(-1). However, no statistically significant relationship between the ultimate methane potential or the disintegration constant and the sewage sludge characterisation was found. Next, a methodology based on the sludge characterisation before and after the biomethane potential test was developed to calculate the biodegradable fraction, the composite concentration and stoichiometric coefficients and the soluble COD of the sewage sludge; required parameters for the implementation of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1. The comparison of the experimental and the simulation results proved the consistency of the developed methodology. Nevertheless, an underestimation of the first order solubilisation constant was detected when the experimental results were simulated with the solubilisation constant obtained from the linear regression experimental data fitting. The latter phenomenon could be related to the accumulation of intermediary compounds during the biomethane potential assay.

A modeling approach to describe ZVI-based anaerobic system.Zero-valent iron (ZVI) is increasingly being added into anaerobic reactors to enhance the biological conversion of various less biodegradable pollutants (LBPs). Our study aimed to establish a new structure model based on the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) to simulate such a ZVI-based anaerobic reactor. Three new processes, i.e., electron release from ZVI corrosion, H2 formation from ZVI corrosion, and transformation of LBPs, were integrated into ADM1. The established model was calibrated and tested using the experimental data from one published study, and validated using the data from another work. A good relationship between the predicted and measured results indicates that the proposed model was appropriate to describe the performance of the ZVI-based anaerobic system. Our model could provide more precise strategies for the design, development, and application of anaerobic systems especially for treating various LBPs-containing wastewaters.

Olanzapine activates hepatic mammalian target of rapamycin: new mechanistic insight into metabolic dysregulation with atypical antipsychotic drugs.Olanzapine (OLZ), an effective treatment of schizophrenia and other disorders, causes weight gain and metabolic syndrome. Most studies to date have focused on the potential effects of OLZ on the central nervous system's mediation of weight; however, peripheral changes in liver or other key metabolic organs may also play a role in the systemic effects of OLZ. Thus, the purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of OLZ on hepatic metabolism in a mouse model of OLZ exposure. Female C57Bl/6J mice were administered OLZ (8 mg/kg per day) or vehicle subcutaneously by osmotic minipumps for 28 days. Liver and plasma were taken at sacrifice for biochemical analyses and for comprehensive two-dimensional gas chromatography coupled to time-of-flight mass spectrometry metabolomics analysis. OLZ increased body weight, fat pad mass, and liver-to-body weight ratio without commensurate increase in food consumption, indicating that OLZ altered energy expenditure. Expression and biochemical analyses indicated that OLZ induced anaerobic glycolysis and caused a pseudo-fasted state, which depleted hepatic glycogen reserves. OLZ caused similar effects in cultured HepG2 cells, as determined by Seahorse analysis. Metabolomic analysis indicated that OLZ increased hepatic concentrations of amino acids that can alter metabolism via the mTOR pathway; indeed, hepatic mTOR signaling was robustly increased by OLZ. Interestingly, OLZ concomitantly activated AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) signaling. Taken together, these data suggest that disturbances in glucose and lipid metabolism caused by OLZ in liver may be mediated, at least in part, via simultaneous activation of both catabolic (AMPK) and anabolic (mammalian target of rapamycin) pathways, which yields new insight into the metabolic side effects of this drug.

Fecal microbial metabolism of polyphenols and its effects on human gut microbiota.We investigated the biotransformation of four common dietary polyphenols, rutin, quercetin, chlorogenic acid and caffeic acid, in an in vitro mixed culture model of human intestinal microbiota, to determine effects on human gut bacteria. All four compounds were biotransformed rapidly, disappearing from the medium within 0.5 h and later replaced by known phenolic acid breakdown products, at concentrations up to hundreds of micromolar, much higher than in no-polyphenol control experiments. Quantitative PCR was used to measure effects of the polyphenols on the balance between the major groups of intestinal bacteria that are known to influence gut health, i.e., Bifidobacterium spp., Bacteroidetes, and Firmicutes. Fermentation of polyphenols stimulated proliferation of bifidobacteria and decreased the ratio of Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes, relative to controls. Polyphenols also stimulated short chain fatty acid production by the bacteria. Pure bifidobacterial cultures were treated separately with either fermented media isolated from the incubations, the pure test polyphenols, or the biotransformation products detected in the fermentations. Growth stimulation was observed only with fermented polyphenol media and the pure biotransformation products. It appears that dietary polyphenols may have the ability to modify the gut microbial balance, but this effect is indirect, i.e., it is mediated by biotransformation products, rather than the original plant compounds.

Microbial community acclimation enhances waste hydrolysis rates under elevated ammonia and salinity conditions.Hydrolysis rates under potentially inhibitory concentrations of ammonia and salinity were investigated for two model feedstocks (manure and food waste). Rates were determined under a range of ammonia and salinity concentrations (1.0-10.0 g TAN [total ammonia nitrogen] L(-1) and 3.9-20.0 g sodium L(-1)) with unacclimated and acclimated microbial inocula. Microbial community changes as a function of acclimation and feedstock were also investigated. Using unacclimated inocula, hydrolysis was found to be severely inhibited for elevated ammonia and salinity (~4 to 10-fold, respectively) or hydrolysis was not detected. However, for inocula acclimated over 2-4 months, statistically significant inhibition generally was not detectable. Molecular analyses demonstrated that microbial community composition changed during acclimation, and bacterial communities under elevated ammonia were distinct from communities under elevated salinity. Feedstock source also had a major influence on bacterial community structure.

Lactobacillus plantarum TN8 exhibits protective effects on lipid, hepatic and renal profiles in obese rat.This study aimed to first investigate the immuno-modulatory effects of six newly isolated lactic acid bacteria (LAB) on the peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) of Wistar rats. Except for Lactobacillus plantarum TN8, all the other strains were noted to induce high levels of pro-inflammatory cytokine IL-12 and low levels of anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. The strains also generated low ratios of IL-10/IL-12 cytokine. Strain TN8 was, on the other hand, noted to induce an increase in anti-inflammatory IL-10 cytokine secretion rates and a decrease in pro-inflammatory IL-12, IFN-γ and TNF-α cytokine production. The oral administration of TN8 improved the hepatic and urinary functions of obese rats by inducing decreases (P < 0.05) in alanine amino transferase (ALAT), gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), plasmatic triglycerides, total cholesterol concentrations, creatinine, urea, and body weight when compared to the control group of animals that underwent an increase in aspartate amino transferase (ASAT) and high density lipoprotein (HDL). Overall, the findings indicate that strain TN8 exhibited a number of attractive properties that might open new promising opportunities for the improvement of various parameters related to animal health performance and the avoidance of antibiotics and drugs as promoting factors.

Characterization of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate aldolase during anoxia in the tolerant turtle, Trachemys scripta elegans: an assessment of enzyme activity, expression and structure.One of the most adaptive facultative anaerobes among vertebrates is the freshwater turtle, Trachemys scripta elegans. Upon a decrease in oxygen supply and oxidative phosphorylation, these turtles are able to reduce their metabolic rate and recruit anaerobic glycolysis to meet newly established ATP demands. Within the glycolytic pathway, aldolase enzymes cleave fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to triose phosphates facilitating an increase in anaerobic production of ATP. Importantly, this enzyme exists primarily as tissue-specific homotetramers of aldolase A, B or C located in skeletal muscle, liver and brain tissue, respectively. The present study characterizes aldolase activity and structure in the liver tissue of a turtle whose survival greatly depends on increased glycolytic output during anoxia. Immunoblot and mass spectrometry analysis verified the presence of both aldolase A and B in turtle liver tissue, and results from co-immunoprecipitation experiments suggested that in the turtle aldolase proteins may exist as an uncommon heterotetramer. Expression levels of aldolase A protein increased significantly in liver tissue to 1.59±0.11-fold after 20 h anoxia, when compared to normoxic control values (P<0.05). A similar increase was seen for aldolase B expression. The overall kinetic properties of aldolase, when using fructose-1,6-bisphosphate as substrate, were similar to that of a previously studied aldolase A and aldolase B heterotetramer, with a Km of 240 and 180 nM (for normoxic and anoxic turtle liver, respectively). Ligand docking of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate to the active site of aldolase A and B demonstrated minor differences in both protein:ligand interactions compared to rabbit models. It is likely that the turtle is unique in its ability to regulate a heterotetramer of aldolase A and B, with a higher overall enzymatic activity, to achieve greater rates of glycolytic output and support anoxia survival.

Dietary supplementation of Bifidobacterium longum strain AH1206 increases its cecal abundance and elevates intestinal interleukin-10 expression in the neonatal piglet.Intestinal microbiota of infants differ in response to gestational age, delivery mode and feeding regimen. Dietary supplementation of probiotic bacteria is one method of promoting healthy populations. We examined the impact of a novel probiotic strain of Bifidobacterium longum (AH1206) on the health, growth and development of neonatal pigs as a model for infants. Day-old pigs were fed milk-based formula containing AH1206 at 0, 10⁹, or 10¹¹ CFU/d for 18 d (n=10/treatment). Differences were not detected in growth, organ weights or body temperatures (P>0.1); however pigs fed the high dose showed a small (2%) reduction in feed intake. Bacterial translocation was not affected as indicated by total anaerobic and aerobic counts (CFU) in samples of spleen, liver and mesenteric lymph nodes (P>0.1). Feeding AH1206 had no effects on fecal consistency, but increased the density of B. longum in the cecum. Ileal TNF expression tended to increase (P=0.08) while IL-10 expression increased linearly (P=0.01) with supplementation. Based upon findings in the suckling piglet model, we suggest that dietary supplementation with B. longum (AH1206) may be safe for human infants based on a lack of growth, development or deleterious immune-related effects observed in piglets.

Thermo-alkaline pretreatment of waste activated sludge at low-temperatures: effects on sludge disintegration, methane production, and methanogen community structure.Low-temperature thermo-alkaline pretreatment of waste activated sludge (WAS) was studied, within the region of 0-0.2 M NaOH and 60-90°C, for the effects of NaOH concentration and temperature on sludge degradability in anaerobic digestion (AD). Significant disintegration of sludge solids (up to 75.6%) and an increase in methane production (up to 70.6%) were observed in the pretreatment trials. Two quadratic models were successfully generated by response surface analysis (R(2)>0.9, p<0.05) to approximate how the degree of sludge disintegration (SD) and methane production (MP) respond to changes in the pretreatment conditions. The maximum responses of SD (77.8%) and MP (73.9% increase over the control) were shown at [0.16 M NaOH, 90°C] and [0.10 M NaOH, 73.7°C], respectively. NaOH addition showed a significant influence on the evolution of methanogen community structure during AD, whereas temperature did not. Aceticlastic Methanosaeta and Methanosarcina speceies were likely the major methanogens.

Evaluation of a Ca-modified porphyritic andesite for ammonium removal in the anaerobic digestion process.In this study, a Ca-modified porphyritic andesite (wheat-rice-stone (WRS)) was developed for the anaerobic digestion of ammonium-rich wastes. The Ca-modified WRS was obtained with integrated Ca-salt treatment and calcination. Scanning electron microscope and Brunauer-Emmett-Teller surface area analyses were performed to characterize the Ca-modified WRS, and adsorption isotherms and kinetics were investigated to clarify the adsorption mechanism. The ammonium adsorption process was explained well with a pseudo-second-order kinetic model. The specific surface area of the Ca-modified WRS was determined to be 4.56 sq. m/g, and the maximum NH4(+)-N adsorption capacity was determined to be 45.45 mg/g. These values are improvements over those of natural WRS. The ammonium adsorption capacity remained constant at a pH range from 5.0 to 9.0, which indicates that Ca-modified WRS is a promising material for various applications. The methane-production and chemical oxygen demand-removal aspects of anaerobic digestion were much improved with the addition of Ca-modified WRS. Therefore, Ca-modified WRS could be developed into a viable ammonium adsorbent for the anaerobic digestion of ammonium-rich wastes.

Performance and kinetic evaluation of the semi-continuous anaerobic digestion of sunflower oil cake pretreated with ultrasound.A study of the semi-continuous anaerobic digestion of sunflower oil cake previously sonicated (at a specific energy of 24,000 kJ/kg TS, constant sonication frequency of 20 kHz and ultrasonic power of 120 W) was carried out in laboratory-scale completely stirred tank reactors at mesophilic temperature (35°C). Two anaerobic inocula were used: a mixture of flocculant biomass (I) from a full-scale anaerobic reactor treating waste activated sludge and a granular inoculum (II) from an industrial UASB reactor treating brewery wastewater. Soluble COD (CODs) removal efficiencies ranged between 67.7% and 70.1% and between 61.3% and 67.7% at hydraulic retention times (HRTs) of between 24-10 days for inoculum I and 24-8 days for inoculum II. However, for HRTs lower than 8 days and 6.7 days, equivalent to organic loading rates (OLRs) higher than 2.62 and 3.15 g COD/(L·d), respectively, a sudden decrease in the CODs removal efficiency was observed in both cases. In any case, inoculum II allowed for a more stable and efficient operation for a wider range of both OLRs and HRTs, permitting an appropriate and reliable operation for OLRs as high as 3.15 g COD/(L·d) and HRTs as low as 6.7 days. The methane production rates achieved with inoculum II were always higher than those reached with inoculum I. The overall methane yield obtained with inoculum II was 13% higher than that achieved with inoculum I. In addition, this value was 1.9 times higher than the methane yield obtained with untreated (non-sonicated) SuOC. A second-order kinetic model was found to be adequate to fit the experimental results obtained for the two inocula used. The kinetic constant obtained with inoculum I was 3.5 times higher than that achieved with inoculum II.

The association of the distance walked in 6 min with pre-operative peak oxygen consumption and complications 1 month after colorectal resection.We measured the distance 112 patients walked in 6 min, as well as their peak oxygen consumption pedalling a bicycle, week before scheduled resection of benign or malignant colorectal disease. The distance walked correlated with peak oxygen consumption, the former 'accounting' for about half the variation in the latter, r² 0.52 (95% CI 0.38-0.64), p < 0.0001. In the first postoperative month, 42/112 patients experienced a complication. In multivariate analysis, complications were less likely with longer walking distances and increasing age: the odds ratio (95% CI) reduced to 0.995 (0.990-0.999) for each metre distance, and to 0.96 (0.93-0.99) with each year of age, p = 0.025 and p = 0.018, respectively. The distance walked in 6 min before surgery can provide prognostic information when cardiopulmonary exercise testing is unavailable.

Velocity gradient as a tool to characterise the link between mixing and biogas production in anaerobic waste digesters.Whilst the importance of mixing in anaerobic digesters to enhance process performance and gas production is well recognised, the specific effects of mixing regime on biogas production are not clear. Here, the velocity gradient is used to demonstrate the importance of minimally mixed zones in a digester, with computational fluid dynamics (CFD) models indicating that 20-85% of a laboratory-scale digester experiences local velocity gradients of less than 10 s⁻¹, dependent on mixing speed. Experimental results indicate that there is a threshold above which increased mixing speed (and hence velocity gradient) becomes counter-productive and biogas production falls. The effects of minimal mixing on digester microbiology are considered with the creation or destruction of localised pockets of high acetate concentration providing a possible explanation for the velocity gradient threshold. The identification of this threshold represents a valuable contribution to the understanding of the effects of mixing on gas production in anaerobic digesters.

Clostridium scindens: a human gut microbe with a high potential to convert glucocorticoids into androgens.Clostridium scindens American Type Culture Collection 35704 is capable of converting primary bile acids to toxic secondary bile acids, as well as converting glucocorticoids to androgens by side-chain cleavage. The molecular structure of the side-chain cleavage product of cortisol produced by C. scindens was determined to be 11β-hydroxyandrost-4-ene-3,17-dione (11β-OHA) by high-resolution mass spectrometry, (1)H and (13)C NMR spectroscopy, and X-ray crystallography. Using RNA-Seq technology, we identified a cortisol-inducible (≈ 1,000-fold) operon (desABCD) encoding at least one enzyme involved in anaerobic side-chain cleavage. The desC gene was cloned, overexpressed, purified, and found to encode a 20α-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (HSDH). This operon also encodes a putative "transketolase" (desAB) hypothesized to have steroid-17,20-desmolase/oxidase activity, and a possible corticosteroid transporter (desD). RNA-Seq data suggests that the two-carbon side chain of glucocorticords may feed into the pentose-phosphate pathway and are used as a carbon source. The 20α-HSDH is hypothesized to function as a metabolic "rheostat" controlling rates of side-chain cleavage. Phylogenetic analysis suggests this operon is rare in nature and the desC gene evolved from a gene encoding threonine dehydrogenase. The physiological effect of 11β-OHAD on the host or other gut microbes is currently unknown.

CFD simulation of anaerobic digester with variable sewage sludge rheology.A computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model that evaluates mechanical mixing in a full-scale anaerobic digester was developed to investigate the influence of sewage sludge rheology on the steady-state digester performance. Mechanical mixing is provided through an impeller located in a draft tube. Use is made of the Multiple Reference Frame model to incorporate the rotating impeller. The non-Newtonian sludge is modeled using the Hershel-Bulkley law because of the yield stress present in the fluid. Water is also used as modeling fluid to illustrate the significant non-Newtonian effects of sewage sludge on mixing patterns. The variation of the sewage sludge rheology as a result of the digestion process is considered to determine its influence on both the required impeller torque and digester mixing patterns. It was found that when modeling the fluid with the Hershel-Bulkley law, the high slope of the sewage stress-strain curve at high shear rates causes significant viscous torque on the impeller surface. Although the overall fluid shear stress property is reduced during digestion, this slope is increased with sludge age, causing an increase in impeller torque for digested sludge due to the high strain rates caused by the pumping impeller. Consideration should be given to using the Bingham law to deal with high strain rates. The overall mixing flow patterns of the digested sludge do however improve slightly.

Evaluation of the inactivation of human Coxsackievirus by thermophilic and mesophilic anaerobic digestion using integrated cell culture and reverse transcription real-time quantitative PCR.The virucidal effects of anaerobic digestion were evaluated using human Coxsackievirus as a model for the Enterovirus family. Coxsackievirus was inactivated completely by thermophilic anaerobic digestion (TAD). By 4 h no living and infectious virus remained and no detectable viral RNA was present after 2 days in TAD (7.0 log reduction). Compared to TAD, 2.6 log reduction of viral RNA was achieved by 14 days in mesophilic anaerobic digestion (MAD) (p < 0.0001). Although cytopathogenic effect was not observed in the cultured cells, low levels of intracellular viral RNA were detected after one day of MAD treatment indicating that Coxsackievirus had infected the cells but could not replicate. The combination of thermal and biochemical effects in TAD plays a critical role for viral disinfection. The results of this study indicate that selection of the right configuration of anaerobic digestion for treatment of biowaste may reduce the risk of viral contamination to the environment and water source.

Oral nanotherapeutics: effect of redox nanoparticle on microflora in mice with dextran sodium sulfate-induced colitis.Patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) exhibit overproduction of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and imbalance of colonic microflora. We previously developed a novel redox nanoparticle (RNP(O)), which effectively scavenged ROS in the inflamed mucosa of mice with dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced colitis after oral administration. The objective of this study was to examine whether the orally administered RNP(O) changed the colonic microflora in healthy mice and those with colitis.
RNP(O) was synthesized by self-assembly of an amphiphilic block copolymer that contains stable nitroxide radicals in hydrophobic side chain via ether linkage. Colitis was induced in mice by supplementing DSS in drinking water for 7 days, and RNP(O) was orally administered daily during DSS treatment. The alterations of fecal microflora during treatment of DSS and RNP(O) were investigated using microbiological assays.
We investigated that RNP(O) did not result in significant changes to the fecal microflora in healthy mice. Although total aerobic and anaerobic bacteria were not significantly different between experimental groups, a remarkable increase in commensal bacteria (Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus sp.) was observed in mice with DSS-induced colitis. Interestingly, orally administered RNP(O) remarkably reduced the rate of increase of these commensal bacteria in mice with colitis.
On the basis of the obtained results, it was confirmed that the oral administration of RNP(O) did not change any composition of bacteria in feces, which strongly suggests a protective effect of RNP(O) on healthy environments in intestinal microflora. RNP(O) may become an effective and safe medication for treatment of UC.

An exploratory study into the putative prebiotic activity of fructans isolated from Agave angustifolia and the associated anticancer activity.Linear inulin-type fructan (ITF) prebiotics have a putative role in the prevention of colorectal cancer, whereas relatively little is known about branched fructans. This study aims to investigate the fermentation properties and potential prebiotic activity of branched fructans derived from Agave angustifolia Haw, using the Simulator of Human Intestinal Microbial Ecosystem (SHIME) model. The proximal, transverse and distal vessels were used to investigate fructan fermentation throughout the colon and to assess the alterations of the microbial composition and fermentation metabolites (short chain fatty acids and ammonia). The influence on bioactivity of the fermentation supernatant was assessed by MTT, Comet and transepithelial electrical resistance (TER), respectively. Addition of Agave fructan to the SHIME model significantly increased (P < 0.05), bifidobacteria populations (proximal and transverse), SCFA concentrations (proximal, transverse and distal) and decreased ammonia concentrations in the distal vessel. Furthermore, the fermentation supernatant significantly (P < 0.05) increased the TER of a Caco-2 cell monolayer (%) and decreased fluorescein-based paracellular flux, suggesting enhanced barrier function and reduced epithelial barrier permeability (proximal and distal vessel). While cytotoxicity and genotoxicity remained unaltered in response to the presence of Agave fructans. To conclude, branched Agave fructans show indications of prebiotic activity, particularly in relation to colon health by exerting a positive influence on gut barrier function, an important aspect of colon carcinogenesis.

Biochars prepared from anaerobic digestion residue, palm bark, and eucalyptus for adsorption of cationic methylene blue dye: characterization, equilibrium, and kinetic studies.Biochars prepared from anaerobic digestion residue (BC-R), palm bark (BC-PB) and eucalyptus (BC-E) were used as sorbents for removal of cationic methylene blue dye (MB). The FE-SEM images indicated that the biochars have a well-developed pore structure, and the Brunauer-Emmett-Teller surface areas of BC-R, BC-PB, and BC-E were 7.60, 2.46, and 10.35 m(2)g(-1), respectively. The efficiencies of MB removal in the samples with initial concentrations of 5 mg L(-1) at pH 7.0 and 40°C by BC-R, BC-PB, and BC-E after 2h were 99.5%, 99.3%, and 86.1%, respectively. Pseudo-second-order kinetics was the most suitable model for describing the adsorption of MB onto the biochars. The experimental data were best described by the Langmuir isotherm model, with a maximum monolayer adsorption capacity of 9.50 mg g(-1) at 40°C for BC-R. The biochars produced from the three types of solid waste showed considerable potential for adsorption.

Comparison of sludge digestion under aerobic and anaerobic conditions with a focus on the degradation of proteins at mesophilic temperature.Aerobic and anaerobic digestion are popular methods for the treatment of waste activated sludge. However, the differences in degradation of sludge during aerobic and anaerobic digestion remain unclear. In this study, the sludge degradation during aerobic and anaerobic digestion was investigated at mesophilic temperature, focused on protein based on the degradation efficiency and degree of humification. The duration of aerobic and anaerobic digestion was about 90 days. The final degradation efficiency of volatile solid was 66.1 ± 1.6% and 66.4 ± 2.4% under aerobic and anaerobic conditions, respectively. The final degradation efficiency of protein was 67.5 ± 1.4% and 65.1 ± 2.6% under aerobic and anaerobic conditions, respectively. The degradation models of volatile solids were consistent with those of protein under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions. The solubility of protein under aerobic digestion was greater than that under anaerobic digestion. Moreover, the humification index of dissolved organic matter of aerobic digestion was greater than that during anaerobic digestion.

Evaluation of bacteriophage therapy to control Clostridium difficile and toxin production in an in vitro human colon model system.Clostridium difficile is a leading cause of hospital-acquired diarrhoea and represents a major challenge for healthcare providers. Due to the decreasing efficacy and associated problems of antibiotic therapy there is a need for synergistic and alternative treatments. In this study we investigated the use of a specific bacteriophage, ΦCD27, in a human colon model of C. difficile infection. Our findings demonstrate a significant reduction in the burden of C. difficile cells and toxin production with phage treatment relative to an untreated control, with no detrimental effect on commensal bacterial populations. The results demonstrate the potential of phage therapy, and highlight the limitations of using phages that have lysogenic capacity.

Thermal modelling of the completely stirred anaerobic reactor treating pig manure at low range of mesophilic conditions.Most of Chinese middle size agricultural biogas plants run at the lower range of mesophilic conditions and low organic loading rates (OLRs) which result in the low biogas production. How to obtain an economically viable operation mode is a challenge for Chinese farm biogas plants. In this study, the performance of completely stirred anaerobic reactors treating pig manure was studied at 20, 28 and 38 °C. A thermal mathematic model was accordingly developed to decide the optimum digesting temperature and OLRs considering ambient temperature of 20, 10 and 0 °C. The regression surface model can fit well on the experimental data when the ambient temperature was around 10-20 °C, at which maximum net energy production (Np,max) can be achieved when the digesters run at OLR of 4.6-5.4 kgODM/m(3) d with temperature of above 26 °C. Co-digestion on the pig farm was suggested in winter in order to increase the Np.

Toxic effects of pure anatoxin-a on biomarkers of rainbow trout, Oncorhynchus mykiss.Anatoxin-a is a neurotoxin produced by various bloom-forming cyanobacteria. Although it shows widespread occurrence and is highly toxic to rodents, its mechanisms of action and biotransformation, and effects in fish species are still poorly understood. The main aim of this study was, thus, to investigate sub-lethal effects of anatoxin-a on selected biochemical markers in rainbow trout fry in order to get information about the mechanisms of toxicity and biotransformation of this toxin in fish. Trout fry were administered sub-lethal doses of anatoxin-a (0.08-0.31 μg g⁻¹) intraperitoneally. Livers and muscle tissue were collected 72 h later for quantification of key enzyme activities as biochemical markers. Enzymes assessed in muscle tissues were related to cholinergic transmission (acetylcholinesterase [AChE]), energy metabolism (lactate dehydrogenase [LDH] and NADP⁺-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase [IDH]). Enzymes assessed in the liver were involved in biotransformation (ethoxyresorufin-O-deethylase [EROD] and glutathione S-transferases [GST]). The results indicated a significant increasing trend for AChE activity with the dose of anatoxin-a, possibly representing an attempt to cope with overstimulation of muscle activity by the toxin, which competes with acetylcholine for nicotinic receptors binding. Anatoxin-a was also found to significantly induce the activities of liver EROD and GST, indicating the involvement of phase I and II biotransformation in its detoxification. Likewise, lactate dehydrogenase activity recorded in fry muscle increased significantly with the dose of anatoxin-a, suggesting an induction of the anaerobic pathway of energy production to deal with toxic stress induced by the exposure. Altogether, the results suggest that under continued exposure in the wild fish may experience motor difficulties, possibly becoming vulnerable to predators, and be at increased metabolic demand to cope with energetic requirements imposed by anatoxin-a biotransformation mechanisms.

Faecalibacterium prausnitzii upregulates regulatory T cells and anti-inflammatory cytokines in treating TNBS-induced colitis.Faecalibacterium prausnitzii (F. prausnitzii) is a common anaerobic bacteria colonized in the human gut and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients are usually lack of F. prausnitzii. The aims of this study were to evaluate the anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory capacity of F. prausnitzii by comparing it with Bifidobacterium longum (B. longum) in both cellular and animal experiments.
Human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) and 2, 4, 6-trinitrobenzenesulphonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis rat models were treated with F. prausnitzii, B. longum, F. prausnitzii supernatant or F. prausnitzii medium, respectively. Interleukin (IL)-10, TGF-β1 and IL-12p70 in human PBMCs culture supernatant and rat blood serum were detected. The frequency of CD25(+)Foxp3(+)Treg in human PBMCs, rat PBMCs and rat splenocytes were investigated. Besides, the T-bet, GATA-3, ROR-γt and Foxp3 mRNA in human PBMCs, histopathologic characteristics of the intestinal mucosal and weight loss in the rat models were examined.
F. prausnitzii, B. longum and F. prausnitzii supernatant clearly facilitated the induction of IL-10 and TGF-β1, while induced relatively mild production of IL-12p70 in both cellular and animal models. The F. prausnitzii, B. longum and supernatant differed in their capacity to induce T-bet, GATA-3 and ROR-γt mRNA expression in human PBMCs (both bacterial strains inhibited the expression of ROR-γt while supernatant inhibited the T-bet and GATA-3). However, all of them induced the Foxp3 and Treg production and ameliorated the TNBS-induced colitis. In addition, F. prausnitzii supernatant exhibited the supreme anti-inflammatory capacity.
F. prausnitzii and its unidentified metabolites in the supernatant are promising candidates in treating IBD, and further research remains necessary to elucidate the safety, efficacy, optimum and mechanism of this bacterium in the clinical practice.

Salmonella uses energy taxis to benefit from intestinal inflammation.Chemotaxis enhances the fitness of Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium (S. Typhimurium) during colitis. However, the chemotaxis receptors conferring this fitness advantage and their cognate signals generated during inflammation remain unknown. Here we identify respiratory electron acceptors that are generated in the intestinal lumen as by-products of the host inflammatory response as in vivo signals for methyl-accepting chemotaxis proteins (MCPs). Three MCPs, including Trg, Tsr and Aer, enhanced the fitness of S. Typhimurium in a mouse colitis model. Aer mediated chemotaxis towards electron acceptors (energy taxis) in vitro and required tetrathionate respiration to confer a fitness advantage in vivo. Tsr mediated energy taxis towards nitrate but not towards tetrathionate in vitro and required nitrate respiration to confer a fitness advantage in vivo. These data suggest that the energy taxis receptors Tsr and Aer respond to distinct in vivo signals to confer a fitness advantage upon S. Typhimurium during inflammation by enabling this facultative anaerobic pathogen to seek out favorable spatial niches containing host-derived electron acceptors that boost its luminal growth.

Effects of turbulence modelling on prediction of flow characteristics in a bench-scale anaerobic gas-lift digester.Flow in a gas-lift digester with a central draft-tube was investigated using computational fluid dynamics (CFD) and different turbulence closure models. The k-ω Shear-Stress-Transport (SST), Renormalization-Group (RNG) k-∊, Linear Reynolds-Stress-Model (RSM) and Transition-SST models were tested for a gas-lift loop reactor under Newtonian flow conditions validated against published experimental work. The results identify that flow predictions within the reactor (where flow is transitional) are particularly sensitive to the turbulence model implemented; the Transition-SST model was found to be the most robust for capturing mixing behaviour and predicting separation reliably. Therefore, Transition-SST is recommended over k-∊ models for use in comparable mixing problems. A comparison of results obtained using multiphase Euler-Lagrange and singlephase approaches are presented. The results support the validity of the singlephase modelling assumptions in obtaining reliable predictions of the reactor flow. Solver independence of results was verified by comparing two independent finite-volume solvers (Fluent-13.0sp2 and OpenFOAM-2.0.1).

[Biotransformation by human intestinal flora and absorption-transportation characteristic in a model of Caco-2 cell monolayer of d-corydaline and tetrahydropalmatine].To study the biotransformation by human intestinal flora, and the absorption and transportation characteristic in a model of human colon adenocarcinoma cell lines (Caco-2 cell) monolayer of d-corydaline (CDL) and tetrahydropalmatine (THP).
CDL or THP was incubated with crude enzymes of human intestinal flora under the anaerobic environment and 37 degrees C conditions to transform CDL or THP. Caco-2 cell monolayer was used as an intestinal epithelial cell model for determination of the permeability of CDL or THP from apical side (AP side) to basolateral side (BL side) or from BL side to AP side. Transportation parameters and permeability coefficients (P(app)) were then calculated, and P(app) values were compared with the reported values for model compounds, propranolol as a well absorbed drug and atenolol as a poor absorbed drug. The concentration of CDL or THP was measured by HPLC coupled with photodiode array detector.
CDL or THP in the human intestinal flora incubation system did not happen biotransformation. In the Caco-2 cell monolayer model, the P(app) magnitudes of both CDL and THP were 1 x 10(-5) cm x s(-1) in the bi-directional transport, which were identical with propranolol. And their transports were concentration dependent between 0-180 min.
Both CDL and THP may be stable in the human intestinal flora incubation system, and their absorption and transportation in the human Caco-2 cell monolayer model are mainly via passive diffusion mechanism.

Butyrate-producing bacteria, including mucin degraders, from the swine intestinal tract.To identify bacteria with potential for influencing gut health, 980 anaerobes were cultured from the swine intestinal tract and analyzed for butyrate production. Fifteen isolates in the order Clostridiales produced butyrate and had butyryl coenzyme A (CoA):acetate CoA transferase activity. Three of the isolates grew on mucin, suggesting an intimate association with host intestinal mucosa.

ADM1 calibration using BMP tests for modeling the effect of autohydrolysis pretreatment on the performance of continuous sludge digesters.Improving anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge through pretreatment techniques is a suitable solution for better sludge management. In this sense, modeling may present itself as an important tool to assess and predict process performance and pretreatment effects. In this study, the feasibility of using biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests data for calibrating the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) was evaluated, in order to simulate the operation of continuous digesters fed, at different HRTs, with raw and autohydrolysis-pretreated waste activated sludge. This was achieved using a simplified COD fractioning methodology proposed to define ADM1 inputs. Hydrolysis constant rates were determined as the most sensitive parameters, and estimated using BMP tests. The calibrated model was then cross-validated with continuous digesters data sets. Good model performance was attained employing these techniques. The ADM1 was able to successfully represent the consumption of slowly biodegradable organic matter in BMP tests, the changes in hydrolytic limiting steps due to the autohydrolysis pretreatment and the behavior of the continuous digesters in overall. The COD fractioning methodology and the Xc variable manipulation proposed seemed to be crucial for proper model predictions. Results indicate that BMP tests are a suitable data source for ADM1 calibration, and that the model can be a powerful tool to assess the effect of the autohydrolysis pretreatment on the anaerobic digestion of sewage waste activated sludge.

Studies on stercuia gum formulations in the form of osmotic core tablet for colon-specific drug delivery of azathioprine.The purpose of this research is to evaluate Sterculia urens gum as a carrier for a colon-targeted drug delivery system. Microflora degradation studies of Sterculia gum was conducted in phosphate-buffered saline pH 7.4 containing rat caecal medium under an anaerobic environment. Solubility, swelling index, viscosity, and pH of the polymer solution were determined. Different formulation aspects considered were gum concentration (10-40%) and concentration of citric acid (10-30%) on the swelling index and in-vitro dissolution release. The results of the isothermal stress testing showed that there is no degradation of samples of model drug, azathioprine, the drug polymer mixture, and the core tablet excipients. Differential scanning calorimetry and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy study proved the compatibility of the drug with Sterculia gum and other tablet excipients. Microflora degradation study revealed that Sterculia gum can be used as tablet excipient for drug release in the colonic region by utilizing the action of enterobacteria. The swelling force of the Sterculia gum could concurrently drive the drug out of the polysaccharide core due to the rupture of the mixed film coating under colonic microflora-activated environment. Sterculia gum gives premature drug release in the upper gastrointestinal tract without enteric coating and may not reach the colonic region. Sterculia gum as a colon-targeting carrier is possible via double-layer coating with chitosan/Eudragit RLPO (ammonio-methacrylate copolymer) mixed blend as well as enteric polymers, which would provide acid as well as intestinal resistance but undergo enzymatic degradation once reaching the colon.
The aim of the research is to evaluate wheather Sterculia urens, which is a polysaccharide, is suitable as a carrier for colonic delivery of drugs acting locally in the colon. Sterculia gum has been reported to have wide pharmaceutical applications such as tablet binder, disintegrant, gelling agent, and as a controlled release polymer. Sterculia gum falls under the category of a polysaccharide and is yet to be evaluated as a carrier for colonic delivery of drugs. First the susceptibility of the polysaccharide gum in rat caecal microflora was investigated because true polysaccharides are degraded by the action of normal colonic bacteria. Bacterial degradation of the gum in the colonic environment was confirmed by adding a small quantity of the gum in rat caecal content mixed with phosphate-buffered saline pH 7.4 under an anaerobic environment. Solubility, swelling index, viscosity, and pH of the polymer solution were determined. Different formulation aspects considered were gum concentration (10-40%), concentration of citric acid (10-30%) on swelling index, and in vitro dissolution behavior. Isothermal stress testing was done to determine that there was no degradation of the model drug, azathioprine, with Sterculia gum excipient mixtures under stressed conditions. Differential scanning calorimetry and Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy study proved the compatibility of the drug with Sterculia gum and other tablet excipients. Microflora degradation study revealed that Sterculia gum is digested by the colonic microflora and therefore can be used as a tablet excipient for drug release in the colonic region utilizing the microflora degradation mechanism. Sterculia gum gives premature drug release in the upper gastrointestinal tract without enteric coating and may not reach the colonic region. Sterculia gum as colon-targeting carrier is possible via double-layer coating with chitosan/Eudragit RLPO (ammonio-methacrylate copolymer) and Eudragit L100 polymers, which would provide acid as well as intestinal resistance but undergo enzymatic degradation once reaching the colon.

A Combined Activated Sludge Anaerobic Digestion Model (CASADM) to understand the role of anaerobic sludge recycling in wastewater treatment plant performance.The Combined Activated Sludge-Anaerobic Digestion Model (CASADM) quantifies the effects of recycling anaerobic-digester (AD) sludge on the performance of a hybrid activated sludge (AS)-AD system. The model includes nitrification, denitrification, hydrolysis, fermentation, methanogenesis, and production/utilization of soluble microbial products and extracellular polymeric substances (EPS). A CASADM example shows that, while effluent COD and N are not changed much by hybrid operation, the hybrid system gives increased methane production in the AD and decreased sludge wasting, both caused mainly by a negative actual solids retention time in the hybrid AD. Increased retention of biomass and EPS allows for more hydrolysis and conversion to methane in the hybrid AD. However, fermenters and methanogens survive in the AS, allowing significant methane production in the settler and thickener of both systems, and AD sludge recycle makes methane formation greater in the hybrid system.

Protective effect of a mixture of kefir-isolated lactic acid bacteria and yeasts in a hamster model of Clostridium difficile infection.The objective of this work was to test the protective effect of a mixture (MM) constituted by kefir-isolated microorganisms (Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus kefir, Lc. lactis, Kluyveromyces marxianus and Saccharomyces cerevisiae) in a hamster model of infection with Clostridium difficile, an anaerobic Gram-positive bacterium that causes diarrhoea. Placebo or MM was administered ad libitum in drinking water from day 0 to the end of treatment. Hamsters received orally 200 μg of clyndamicin at day 7 and then were infected with 1 × 10(8) CFU of C. difficile by gavage. Development of diarrhoea and death was registered until the end of the protocol. Surviving animals were sacrificed at day 16, and a test for biological activity of clostridial toxins and histological stainings were performed in caecum samples. Six of seven infected animals developed diarrhoea and 5/7 died at the end of the experimental protocol. The histological sections showed oedema and inflammatory infiltrates with neutrophils and crypt abscesses. In the group of animals infected and treated with MM1/1000, only 1 of 7 hamsters showed diarrhoea and none of them died. The histological sections showed only a slight thickening of the mucosa with presence of lymphocytic infiltrate. These results demonstrate that an oral treatment with a mixture of kefir-isolated bacteria and yeasts was able to prevent diarrhoea and enterocolitis triggered by C. difficile.

Colonizing the embryonic zebrafish gut with anaerobic bacteria derived from the human gastrointestinal tract.The zebrafish has become increasingly popular for microbiological research. It has been used as an infection model for a variety of pathogens, and is also emerging as a tool for studying interactions between a host and its resident microbial communities. The mouse microbiota has been transplanted into the zebrafish gut, but to our knowledge, there has been no attempt to introduce a bacterial community derived from the human gut. We explored two methods for colonizing the developing gut of 5-day-old germ-free zebrafish larvae with a defined anaerobic microbial community derived from a single human fecal sample. Both environmental exposure (static immersion) and direct microinjection into the gut resulted in the establishment of two species-Lactobacillus paracasei and Eubacterium limosum-from a community of 30 strains consisting of 22 anaerobic species. Of particular interest is E. limosum, which, as a strict anaerobe, represents a group of bacteria which until now have not been shown to colonize the developing zebrafish gut. Our success here indicates that further investigation of zebrafish as a tool for studying human gut microbial communities is warranted.

Optimization of the alkaline pretreatment of rice straw for enhanced methane yield.The lime pretreatment process for rice straw was optimized to enhance the biodegradation performance and increase biogas yield. The optimization was implemented using response surface methodology (RSM) and Box-Behnken experimental design. The effects of biodegradation, as well as the interactive effects of Ca(OH)2 concentration, pretreatment time, and inoculum amount on biogas improvement, were investigated. Rice straw compounds, such as lignin, cellulose, and hemicellulose, were significantly degraded with increasing Ca(OH)2 concentration. The optimal conditions for the use of pretreated rice straw in anaerobic digestion were 9.81% Ca(OH)2 (w/w TS), 5.89 d treatment time, and 45.12% inoculum content, which resulted in a methane yield of 225.3 mL/g VS. A determination coefficient (R(2)) of 96% was obtained, indicating that the model used to predict the anabolic digestion process shows a favorable fit with the experimental parameters.

Novel technique for phosphorus recovery from aqueous solutions using amorphous calcium silicate hydrates (A-CSHs).A novel technique for phosphorus (P) recovery from aqueous solutions was developed using amorphous calcium silicate hydrates (A-CSHs). A-CSHs, which have a high Ca/Si molar ratio of 2.0 or greater, could be synthesized using unlimitedly available, inexpensive materials such as siliceous shale and calcium hydroxide. A-CSHs showed high performance for P recovery from an anaerobic sludge digestion liquor (ASDL) and the synthetic model liquor (s-ASDL) containing 89 mg PO4-P/L. After 20 min mixing, 1.5 g/L A-CSHs could remove approximately 69 and 73% PO4-P from ASDL and s-ASDL, respectively. By contrast, autoclaved lightweight concrete particles, which contained crystalline calcium silicate hydrates as a principal component, removed only 10 and 6% PO4-P from ASDL and s-ASDL, respectively, under the same experimental conditions. When A-CSHs were washed with deionized water to remove free Ca(OH)2, P removability was significantly improved (up to 82%) despite the reduction in the amount of Ca(2+) released. Unlike in the case of Ca(OH)2, no significant carbonate inhibition was observed with P removal by A-CSHs. Moreover, P removed by A-CSHs showed better settleability, filterability, and dewaterability than P precipitated with conventional CaCl2 and Ca(OH)2. The present study demonstrated that A-CSHs have great potential as a novel, beneficial material for P recovery and recycling.

Development and calibration of a model for biohydrogen production from organic waste.Existing models for H2 production are capable of predicting digester failure caused by a specific disturbance. However, they are based on studies using simple sugars, while it is known that H2 production and fermentation kinetics vary with the composition and characteristics of the substrate used. Because the behaviour of biological processes may differ significantly when the digesting material is a complex matrix, such as organic waste, the aim of this study was to develop and calibrate a mathematical model for the prediction of hydrogen production on the basis of the results obtained from a laboratory scale experimental study using source-selected organic waste. The calibration was carried out for the most important kinetic parameters in mesophilic anaerobic digestion processes and also served as a sensitivity analysis for the influence of both the specific growth rate (μmax and the half velocity constant (k(s)), both of which are strongly dependant on the substrate used. High values of μmax led to a shorter lag-time and to an overestimate of the cumulative final H2 production relative to the experimentally measured production. Additionally, high values of ks associated with amino acid and sugar fermentation corresponded to a lower rate of substrate consumption and to a greater lag-time for growth of hydrogen-producing microorganisms. In this case, a lower final H2 production was predicted than that which was experimentally observed. Because the model development and calibration provided useful information concerning the role of the kinetic constants in the analysis of a fermentative H2 production process from organic wastes, they may also represent a good foundation for the analysis of fermentative H2 production from organic waste for pilot and full-scale applications.

Techno-economic assessment of biofuel development by anaerobic digestion of European marine cold-water seaweeds.The techno-economic characteristics of macro-algae utilisation from European temperate zones was evaluated in a selected Anaerobic Digester (AD) using the chemical process modelling software ECLIPSE. The assessment covered the mass and energy balance of the entire process followed by the economic feasibility study, which included the total cost estimation, net present value calculation, and sensitivity analysis. The selected plant size corresponded to a community based AD of 1.6 MWth with a macro-algae feed rate of 8.64 tonnes per day (dry basis). The produced biogas was utilised in a combined heat and power plant generating 237 kWenet electricity and 367 kWth heat. The breakeven electricity-selling price in this study was estimated at around €120/MWh. On the ground of different national and regional policies, this study did not account for any government incentives. However, different support mechanisms such as Feed-in-Tariffs or Renewable Obligation Certificates can significantly improve the project viability.

Integration of NIRS and PCA techniques for the process monitoring of a sewage sludge anaerobic digester.This study investigates the use of Hotelling's T(2) control charts as the basis of a process monitor for sewage sludge anaerobic digestion. Fourier transform near infrared spectroscopy was used to produce partial least squares regression models of volatile fatty acids, bicarbonate alkalinity and volatile solids. These were utilised in a series of principle component analysis models along with spectral data from digestate and feedstock samples to produce a pseudo steady state model, which was then used with an independent test set to evaluate the system. The system was able to identify disturbances to the digester due to a temporary alteration of the type of feedstock to the digester and separately, halving of the hydraulic retention time of the digester. It could also provide advance warning of disturbances to the digester. This technique could be used to improve the performance of sewage sludge anaerobic digesters by enabling optimisation of the process.

Explicit temperature-based model for anaerobic digestion: application in domestic wastewater treatment in a UASB reactor.Temperature is an important environmental variable that can strongly affect the performance of anaerobic reactors working at ambient temperatures. This study presents a mechanistic mathematical model which depends in an explicit way on the operating temperature. The cardinal temperature model function is proposed to describe the temperature dependence of the kinetic parameters and the experimental data from an UASB-degasification system was used to calibrate and validate the model. The performance of the model is compared with the classic Arrhenius approach. The results showed that the temperature-based model of the anaerobic digestion is able to reproduce a long-term reactor operation in terms of biogas production and the concentration of organic matter at fluctuating ambient temperature.

Enhanced bio-methane production from co-digestion of different organic wastes.This paper deals with an experimental study aimed at assessing the effect of mixing different organic wastes on the anaerobic digestion process. Livestock manure and organic solid wastes have been taken into account as substrates to verify if their mixing gives rise to higher methane production rates and lower risk of process failure. Bio-methane potential (BMP) tests have been conducted using the following substrates: buffalo manure (BM), poultry manure (PM), organic fraction of the municipal solid waste (OFMSW), greengrocery waste (GW) and two different mixtures composed of BM and OFMSW. Mixing BM with OFMSW resulted in 12% and 30% higher methane volumes after 30 and 15 days from the test start, respectively. Experimental data have been also used to calibrate and validate a mathematical model previously proposed by the authors, showing its capability to reproduce the synergistic effect on methane production promoted by co-digesting BM and OFSMW.

Synergetic stress of acids and ammonium on the shift in the methanogenic pathways during thermophilic anaerobic digestion of organics.Combined effects of acids and ammonium on functional pathway and microbial structure during organics methanization were investigated by stable isotopic method and quantitative PCR. The results showed that the stress from acids and ammonium was synergetic, resulted in different inhibition for acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis and syntrophic acetate oxidation, leading to pathway shift. Methane production from acetate was affected more by acetate than by ammonium until the ammonium concentration reached 6-7 g-N/L. When the ammonium concentration exceeded 6 g-N/L, ammonium inhibition was strengthened by the increased concentration of acetate. At a low acetate concentration (50 mmol/L), acetoclastic methanogenesis dominated, regardless of ammonium concentration. At higher acetate concentrations (150 and 250 mmol/L) and at low-medium ammonium levels (1-4 g-N/L), acetate was mainly degraded by acetoclastic methanogenesis, while residual acetate was degraded by a combination of acetoclastic methanogenesis and the syntrophic reaction of syntrophic acetate oxidization and hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis with the latter dominating at 250 mmol/L acetate. At high ammonium levels (6-7 g-N/L), the degradation of acetate in the 150 mmol/L treatment was firstly through a combination of acetoclastic methanogenesis and the syntrophic pathway and then gradually shifted to the syntrophic pathway, while the degradation of acetate in the 250 mmol/L treatment was completely by the syntrophic pathway.

Feasibility of anaerobic digested corn stover as biosorbent for heavy metal.Anaerobic digested (AD) corn stover collected from a lab-scale reactor was used as bioadsorbent to remove the heavy metal in aqueous solution. Effects of contact time and initial heavy metal concentrations on the removal process of Cu(2+) and Cd(2+) were investigated. The maximum adsorption capacities of AD corn stover obtained from Langmuir isotherm models were 83.3 and 50.0mg/g for Cu(2+) and Cd(2+), respectively. Fourier transform infrared spectroscopy (FTIR) was also used to investigate the surface characteristic of raw and heavy metal loaded AD corn stover.

Kinetics of methane production from the codigestion of switchgrass and Spirulina platensis algae.Anaerobic batch digestion of four feedstocks was conducted at 35 and 50 °C: switchgrass; Spirulina platensis algae; and two mixtures of both switchgrass and S. platensis. Mixture 1 was composed of 87% switchgrass (based on volatile solids) and 13% S. platensis. Mixture 2 was composed of 67% switchgrass and 33% S. platensis. The kinetics of methane production from these feedstocks was studied using four first order models: exponential, Gompertz, Fitzhugh, and Cone. The methane yields after 40days of digestion at 35 °C were 355, 127, 143 and 198 ml/g VS, respectively for S. platensis, switchgrass, and Mixtures 1 and 2, while the yields at 50 °C were 358, 167, 198, and 236 ml/g VS, respectively. Based on Akaike's information criterion, the Cone model best described the experimental data. The Cone model was validated with experimental data collected from the digestion of a third mixture that was composed of 83% switchgrass and 17% S. platensis.

Reducing the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 for its application to an industrial wastewater treatment plant treating winery effluent wastewater.The Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) is a complex model which is widely accepted as a common platform for anaerobic process modeling and simulation. However, it has a large number of parameters and states that hinder its calibration and use in control applications. A principal component analysis (PCA) technique was extended and applied to simplify the ADM1 using data of an industrial wastewater treatment plant processing winery effluent. The method shows that the main model features could be obtained with a minimum of two reactions. A reduced stoichiometric matrix was identified and the kinetic parameters were estimated on the basis of representative known biochemical kinetics (Monod and Haldane). The obtained reduced model takes into account the measured states in the anaerobic wastewater treatment (AWT) plant and reproduces the dynamics of the process fairly accurately. The reduced model can support on-line control, optimization and supervision strategies for AWT plants.

γ-Alumina as a process advancing tool for a new generation biofuel.The production of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) in a continuous process using a synthetic glucose medium as model substrate in the presence of γ-alumina as promoter is described. The results showed formation of acetic, propionic, isobutyric, butyric, isovaleric and valeric acids, with acetic acid being more than 90% of the total VFAs produced. It is also highlighted that γ-alumina enhanced the simultaneous production of acetic acid and ethanol, which in some cases was formed at concentrations able to esterify about 85% of the produced VFAs. Since most agro-industrial effluents can be treated by anaerobic acidogenic digestion, while lignocellulosic biomass can be converted to VFAs after hydrolysis, this contribution can lead to a breakthrough in the research of biofuel production from renewable waste sources.

The role of gut microbiota in the pathogenesis of colorectal cancer.The human gastrointestinal tract harbors a complex and abundant microbial community that can reach levels as high as 10(13)-10(14) microorganisms in the colon. These microorganisms are essential to a host's well-being in terms of nutrition and mucosa immunity. However, numerous studies have also implicated members of the colonic microbiota in the development of colorectal cancer (CRC). While CRC involves a genetic component where damaged DNA and genetic instability initiates a malignant transformation, environmental factors can also contribute to the onset of CRC. Furthermore, considering the constant exposure of the colonic mucosa to the microbiome and/or its metabolites, the mucosa has long been proposed to contribute to colon tumorigenesis. However, the mechanistic details of these associations remain unknown. Fortunately, due to technical and conceptual advances, progress in characterizing the taxonomic composition, metabolic capacity, and immunomodulatory activity of human gut microbiota have been made, thereby elucidating its role in human health and disease. Furthermore, the use of experimental animal models and clinical/epidemiological studies of environmental etiological factors has identified a correlation between gut microbiota composition and gastrointestinal cancers. Bacteria continuously stimulate activated immunity in the gut mucosa and also contribute to the metabolism of bile and food components. However, the highest levels of carcinogen production are also associated with gut anaerobic bacteria and can be lowered with live lactobacilli supplements. In this review, evidence regarding the relationship between microbiota and the development of CRC will be discussed, as well as the role for microbial manipulation in affecting disease development.

Glyphosate suppresses the antagonistic effect of Enterococcus spp. on Clostridium botulinum.During the last 10-15 years, an increase of Clostridium botulinum associated diseases in cattle has been observed in Germany. The reason for this development is currently unknown. The normal intestinal microflora is a critical factor in preventing intestinal colonisation by C. botulinum as shown in the mouse model of infant botulism. Numerous bacteria in the gastro-intestinal tract (GIT) produce bacteriocines directed against C. botulinum and other pathogens: Lactic acid producing bacteria (LAB) such as lactobacilli, lactococci and enterococci, generate bacteriocines that are effective against Clostridium spp. A reduction of LAB in the GIT microbiota by ingestion of strong biocides like glyphosate could be an explanation for the observed increase in levels of C. botulinum associated diseases. In the present paper, we report on the toxicity of glyphosate to the most prevalent Enterococcus spp. in the GIT. Ingestion of this herbicide could be a significant predisposing factor that is associated with the increase in C. botulinum mediated diseases in cattle.

Intestinal epithelial restitution after TcdB challenge and recovery from Clostridium difficile infection in mice with alanyl-glutamine treatment.Clostridium difficile is an anaerobic bacterium that causes antibiotic-associated diarrhea. It produces toxin A and toxin B (TcdB), which cause injury to the gut epithelium. Glutamine is a fundamental fuel for enterocytes, maintaining intestinal mucosal health. Alanyl-glutamine (AQ) is a highly soluble dipeptide derivative of glutamine. We studied whether administration of AQ ameliorates the effects of TcdB in the intestinal cells and improves the outcome of C. difficile infection in mice.
WST-1 proliferation and cell-wounding-migration assays were assessed in IEC-6 cells exposed to TcdB, with or without AQ. Apoptosis and necrosis were assessed using Annexin V and flow cytometry. C57BL/6 mice were infected with VPI 10463 and treated with either vancomycin, AQ, or vancomycin with AQ. Intestinal tissues were collected for histopathologic analysis, apoptosis staining, and determination of myeloperoxidase activity.
AQ increased proliferation in intestinal cells exposed to TcdB, improved migration at 24 and 48 hours, and reduced apoptosis in intestinal cells challenged with TcdB. Infected mice treated with vancomycin and AQ had better survival and histopathologic findings than mice treated with vancomycin alone.
AQ may reduce intestinal mucosal injury in C. difficile-infected mice by partially reversing the effects of TcdB on enterocyte proliferation, migration, and apoptosis, thereby improving survival from C. difficile infection.

Evaluation of two statistical methods for optimizing the feeding composition in anaerobic co-digestion: mixture design and central composite design.To investigate the feasibility of statistical methods in optimizing the feeding composition in anaerobic co-digestion, a simplex-centroid mixture design (SCMD) and central composite design (CCD) were evaluated with methane potential as the response variable. Dairy manure, chicken manure, swine manure and rice straw (RS) were selected as raw materials and two kinds of manures and RS were mixed in each blend. Each component served as an independent variable in the SCMD and CCD and involved two factors, the manure and C/N ratios. Co-digestion of three-component substrates resulted in higher methane potentials than single and two-component substrates. In response surface plots, SCMD showed the interactions among each component in the co-substrates and CCD presented the interaction between the ratio of manures and the C/N ratio. SCMD and CCD are both suitable methods for optimizing the feeding composition during anaerobic co-digestion.

Brazilian beef cattle feedlot manure management: a country survey.No information regarding the management of manure from beef cattle feedlots is available for Brazil. To fill this knowledge gap, a survey of 73 feedlots was conducted in 7 Brazilian states. In this survey, questions were asked regarding animal characteristics, their diets, and manure handling management from generation to disposal. These feedlots finished 831,450 animals in 2010. The predominant breed fed was Nellore, with average feeding periods of 60 to 135 d. Corn was the primary source of grain used in the feedlot diets (76% of surveyed animals) with concentrate inclusion levels ranging from 81 to 90% (38% of surveyed animals). The most representative manure management practice was the removal of manure from pens only at the end of the feeding period. Subsequently, the manure was stored in mounds before being applied to crop and pasture lands. Runoff, mainly from rainwater, was collected in retention ponds and used for agriculture. However, the quantity of runoff was not known. Manure was composted for only 20% of the animals in the survey and was treated in anaerobic digesters for only 1% of the animals. Manure from 59% of the cattle surveyed was used as fertilizer, providing a cost savings over the use of synthetic fertilizers. Overall, chemical analysis of the manure before application to fields was conducted for the manure of 56% of the surveyed animals, but the exact quantity applied (per hectare) was unknown for 48%. Feedlots representing 48% of the surveyed animals noted similar or greater crop and pasture yields when using manure, rather than synthetic fertilizers. In addition, 32% mentioned an increase in soil organic matter. Feedlots representing 88% of the surveyed cattle indicated that information concerning management practices that improve manure use efficiency is lacking. Feedlots representing 93% of the animals in the survey reported having basic information regarding the generation of energy and fertilizer with anaerobic digesters. However, only 1 feedlot implemented this technology. In conclusion, the manure management evaluated in this study represents an important indirect economic benefit that was represented by decreased use of synthetic fertilizers in crops. However, little attention was given to the specific treatments and environmental impacts of handling manure. This survey provides information that should assist in the development of better research practices and broader application of future models.

The Dynamic Anaerobic Reactor & Integrated Energy System (DARIES) model: model development, validation, and sensitivity analysis.The Dynamic Anaerobic Reactor & Integrated Energy System (DARIES) model has been developed as a biogas and electricity production model of a dairy farm anaerobic digester system. DARIES, which incorporates the Anaerobic Digester Model No. 1 (ADM1) and simulations of both combined heat and power (CHP) and digester heating systems, may be run in either completely mixed or plug flow reactor configurations. DARIES biogas predictions were shown to be statistically coincident with measured data from eighteen full-scale dairy operations in the northeastern United States. DARIES biogas predictions were more accurate than predictions made by the U.S. AgSTAR model FarmWare 3.4. DARIES electricity production predictions were verified against data collected by the NYSERDA DG/CHP Integrated Data System. Preliminary sensitivity analysis demonstrated that DARIES output was most sensitive to influent flow rate, chemical oxygen demand (COD), and biodegradability, and somewhat sensitive to hydraulic retention time and digester temperature.

Role of host xanthine oxidase in infection due to enteropathogenic and Shiga-toxigenic Escherichia coli.Xanthine oxidase (XO), also known as xanthine oxidoreductase, has long been considered an important host defense molecule in the intestine and in breastfed infants. Here, we present evidence that XO is released from and active in intestinal tissues and fluids in response to infection with enteropathogenic Escherichia coli (EPEC) and Shiga-toxigenic E. coli (STEC), also known as enterohemorrhagic E. coli (EHEC). XO is released into intestinal fluids in EPEC and STEC infection in a rabbit animal model. XO activity results in the generation of surprisingly high concentrations of uric acid in both cultured cell and animal models of infection. Hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) generated by XO activity triggered a chloride secretory response in intestinal cell monolayers within minutes but decreased transepithelial electrical resistance at 6 to 22 h. H(2)O(2) generated by XO activity was effective at killing laboratory strains of E. coli, commensal microbiotas, and anaerobes, but wild-type EPEC and STEC strains were 100 to 1,000 times more resistant to killing or growth inhibition by this pathway. Instead of killing pathogenic bacteria, physiologic concentrations of XO increased virulence by inducing the production of Shiga toxins from STEC strains. In vivo, exogenous XO plus the substrate hypoxanthine did not protect and instead worsened the outcome of STEC infection in the rabbit ligated intestinal loop model of infection. XO released during EPEC and STEC infection may serve as a virulence-inducing signal to the pathogen and not solely as a protective host defense.

Mathematical model of anaerobic digestion in a chemostat: effects of syntrophy and inhibition.Three of the four main stages of anaerobic digestion: acidogenesis, acetogenesis, and methanogenesis are described by a system of differential equations modelling the interaction of microbial populations in a chemostat. The microbes consume and/or produce simple substrates, alcohols and fatty acids, acetic acid, and hydrogen. Acetogenic bacteria and hydrogenotrophic methanogens interact through syntrophy. The model also includes the inhibition of acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogens due to sensitivity to varying pH-levels. To examine the effects of these interactions and inhibitions, we first study an inhibition-free model and obtain results for global stability using differential inequalities together with conservation laws. For the model with inhibition, we derive conditions for existence, local stability, and bistability of equilibria and present a global stability result. A case study illustrates the effects of inhibition on the regions of stability. Inhibition introduces regions of bistability and stabilizes some equilibria.

Optimization of biological hydrogen production for anaerobic co-digestion of food waste and wastewater biosolids.Batch anaerobic co-digestion studies were conducted using 21 mixtures (M1-M21) of food waste (FW), primary sludge (PS), and waste activated sludge (WAS) at 37°C and an initial pH of 5.5±0.2. The results showed that co-digestion of FW and sludges had a positive impact on the hydrogen production. The maximum hydrogen yields by co-digestion of FW+PS, FW+WAS, and FW+PS+WAS were achieved at volumetric ratios of 75:25, 75:25, and 80:15:5, respectively, with corresponding optimal COD/N mass ratios of 26, 31 and 30, respectively. Furthermore, the synergistic effect of co-digestion was proven and quantified: the measured hydrogen productions were higher than the sums of the hydrogen productions calculated from each fraction, and the highest percentage increase above the calculated value of 101%, was achieved in the FW+PS+WAS mixture (80:15:5).

Mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion of cow manure and biogas crops in full scale German biogas plants: a model for calculating the effect of hydraulic retention time and VS crop proportion in the mixture on methane yield from digester and from digestate storage at different temperatures.Data from 24 full scale biogas plants in Germany digesting cow manure and crops were evaluated. Special emphasis was given to the effect of hydraulic retention time HRT and proportion of crops in the mixture (VS basis) p(VS,Crops)(Inp) on the methane yield from the digester [Formula: see text] and the storage tank [Formula: see text] at 37 and 22°C. The evaluation has shown model parameters for maximal methane yield of manure and crops [Formula: see text] at 270 and 420 Lkg(-1), respectively. For example, at HRT of 60days, maximum methane yield result to 249 and 388 Lkg(-1) for a crop proportion in the input of 0.0 and 1.0, respectively. The calculation of [Formula: see text] considers first order reaction rates and a temperature term f(T). Hence, at any arbitrary temperature in the range of 12°C<T<37°C the values of [Formula: see text] in the course of time can be calculated, which correspond to methane emissions for uncovered storage tanks.

Biokinetics and bacterial communities of propionate oxidizing bacteria in phased anaerobic sludge digestion systems.Phased anaerobic digestion is a promising technology and may be a potential source of bio-energy production. Anaerobic digesters are widely used for sewage sludge stabilization and thus a better understanding of the microbial process and kinetics may allow increased volatile solids reduction and methane production through robust process operation. In this study, we analyzed the impact of phase separation and operational conditions on the bio-kinetic characteristics and communities of bacteria associated with four phased anaerobic digestion systems. In addition to significant differences between bacterial communities associated with different digester operating temperatures, our results also revealed that bacterial communities in the phased anaerobic digestion systems differed between the 1st and 2nd phase digesters and we identified strong community composition correlations with several measured physicochemical parameters. The maximum specific growth rates of propionate oxidizing bacteria (POB) in the mesophilic and thermophilic 1st phases were 11 and 23.7 mgCOD mgCOD(-1) d(-1), respectively, while those of the mesophilic and thermophilic 2nd-phase digesters were 6.7 and 18.6 mgCOD mgCOD(-1) d(-1), respectively. Hence, the biokinetic characteristics of the POB population were dependent on the digester loading. In addition, we observed that the temperature dependency factor (θ) values were higher for the less heavily loaded digesters as compared to the values obtained for the 1st-phase digesters. Our results suggested the appropriate application of two sets of POB bio-kinetic that reflect the differing growth responses as a function of propionate concentration (and/or organic loading rates). Also, modeling acetogenesis in phased anaerobic sludge digestion systems will be improved considering a population shift in separate phases. On the basis of the bio-kinetic values estimated in various digesters, high levels of propionate in the thermophilic digesters may be best explained by the establishment of POB with low affinities (high K(s)) for propionate. Achieving low levels of propionate with either thermophilic or short HRT digesters is challenging and a relatively long HRT mesophilic digester should be employed for this purpose.

Using wastewater and high-rate algal ponds for nutrient removal and the production of bioenergy and biofuels.This paper projects a positive outcome for large-scale algal biofuel and energy production when wastewater treatment is the primary goal. Such a view arises partly from a recent change in emphasis in wastewater treatment technology, from simply oxidising the organic matter in the waste (i.e. removing the biological oxygen demand) to removing the nutrients - specifically nitrogen and phosphorus - which are the root cause of eutrophication of inland waterways and coastal zones. A growing need for nutrient removal greatly improves the prospects for using new algal ponds in wastewater treatment, since microalgae are particularly efficient in capturing and removing such nutrients. Using a spreadsheet model, four scenarios combining algae biomass production with the making of biodiesel, biogas and other products were assessed for two of Australia's largest wastewater treatment plants. The results showed that super critical water reactors and anaerobic digesters could be attractive pathway options, the latter providing significant savings in greenhouse gas emissions. Combining anaerobic digestion with oil extraction and the internal economies derived from cheap land and recycling of water and nutrients on-site could allow algal oil to be produced for less than US$1 per litre.

Hypoxia tolerance in sculpins is associated with high anaerobic enzyme activity in brain but not in liver or muscle.We assessed hypoxia tolerance in 11 species of fish from the superfamily Cottoidea (commonly called sculpins) that are known to differ in their critical O(2) tensions (P(crit)) and examined whether hypoxia tolerance correlated with larger substrate stores and higher maximal activity of enzymes associated with anaerobic adenosine triphosphate production (especially glycolysis). Among the sculpins studied, there was large variation in time to loss of equilibrium (LOE(50)) at 6.4 ± 0.1 torr, with values ranging between 25 and 538 min, and the variation in LOE(50) was correlated with P(crit). Our measures of time to LOE(50) and P(crit) were regressed against maximal enzyme activities of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), pyruvate kinase (PK), creatine phosphokinase (CPK), and citrate synthase (CS) as well as the concentrations of glycogen, glucose, and creatine phosphate in the brain, liver, and white muscle. In the brain, there was a phylogenetically independent relationship between P(crit) and tissue LDH, PK, CPK, and CS activities expressed relative to tissue mass. Hypoxia-tolerant sculpins (those with low P(crit) values) had higher levels of brain LDH, PK, CPK, and CS than did hypoxia-sensitive sculpins. Similarly, LOE(50) regressed against brain LDH, PK, and CPK activities expressed relative to tissue mass, with the more hypoxia-tolerant species (i.e., those with higher LOE(50)) having higher enzyme activities. However, when the phylogenetic relationship among our sculpins was taken into account, only the relationship between hypoxia tolerance and LDH activity remained significant. When enzyme activities were expressed relative to total soluble protein in the tissue, the only relationships that remained were between brain LDH activity and P(crit) and LOE(50). In liver and white muscle, there were no relationships between the measures of hypoxia tolerance and enzyme activity or metabolite content. Overall, our analysis suggests that hypoxia-tolerant sculpins maintain higher maximal activities of some of the enzymes involved in anaerobic metabolism in the brain, and this may be an adaptation to hypoxia.

Do two-phase biogas plants separate anaerobic digestion phases? - a mathematical model for the distribution of anaerobic digestion phases among reactor stages.In this article a mathematical model is introduced, which estimates the distribution of the four anaerobic digestion phases (hydrolysis, acidogenesis, acetogenesis and methanogenesis) that occur among the leach bed reactor and the anaerobic filter of a biogas plant. It is shown that only the hydrolysis takes place in the first stage (leach bed reactor), while all other anaerobic digestion phases take place in both reactor stages. It turns out that, besides the usually measured raw materials of the acetogenesis and the methanogenesis phases (organic acids), it is also necessary to analyze the process liquid for raw materials of the acidogenesis phase, i.e., sugars, fatty acids, amino acids, etc. The introduced model can be used to monitor the inhibition of the anaerobic digestion phases in reactor stages and can, thus, help to improve the control system of biogas plants.

Modelling inhibitory effects of long chain fatty acids in the anaerobic digestion process.Mathematical modelling of anaerobic digestion process has been used to give new insights regarding dynamics of the long chain fatty acids (LCFA) inhibition. Previously published experimental data, including batch tests with clay mineral bentonite additions, were used for parameter identification. New kinetics were considered to describe the bio-physics of the inhibitory process, including: i) adsorption of LCFA over granular biomass and ii) specific LCFA substrate (saturated/unsaturated) and LCFA-degrading populations. Furthermore, iii) a new variable was introduced to describe the state of damage of the acetoclastic methanogens in order to account for the loss of cell-functionality (inhibition) induced by the adsorbed LCFAs. The proposed model modifications are state compatible and easy to be integrated into the International Water Association's Anaerobic Digestion Model N°1 (ADM1) framework. Practical identifiability of model parameters was assessed with a global sensitivity analysis, while calibration and model structure validation were performed on independent data sets. A reliable simulation of the LCFA-inhibition process can be achieved, if the model includes the description of the adsorptive nature of the LCFAs and the LCFA-damage over specific biomass. The importance of microbial population structure (saturated/unsaturated LCFA-degraders) and the high sensitivity of acetoclastic population to LCFA are evidenced, providing a plausible explanation of experimental based hypothesis.

Characterization of Thauera-dominated hydrogen-oxidizing autotrophic denitrifying microbial communities by using high-throughput sequencing.The present study, for the first time, reported a Thauera-dominated hydrogen-oxidizing autotrophic denitrifying microbial community enriched from different seed sludges including activated sludge and anaerobic digestion sludge. After 244 days enrichment, nitrogen removal rates reached up to 0.2 mg N/mg VSS/d which were comparable to that of the model organism Paracoccus denitrificans under the same conditions. Furthermore, high-throughput sequencing was applied to characterize and compare the seed sludges and enriched cultures. Operational taxonomic units (OTU)-based analysis (97% similarity cutoff) of total 280,000 16S rRNA gene V6 region sequences from 7 sludge samples (40,000 sequences per sample) revealed that the microbial diversity decreased after the enrichment, indicated by OTU numbers drop of 55-60%. Thauera species in the class of β-Proteobacteria were enriched into the dominant populations with relative abundances of 47-62%, regardless of seed sludge sources.

Bioenergy as a biodiversity management tool and the potential of a mixed species feedstock for bioenergy production in Wales.A cutting management regime maintains high levels of biodiversity in semi-natural habitats across Europe. We utilise three years of annual yield data from Welsh semi-natural areas to calculate the mean feedstock production from cutting management to be 1.05×10(6) t DM annum(-1). Using formulae based upon Fischer Tropsch (FT) fuel process models, we predict that 2.12×10(5) t of FT fuel annum(-1) could be produced. That represents 38% of the Welsh transport sector's green house gas (GHG) reduction target for 2020. Alternatively, predictive formulae reveal that methane yields from anaerobic digestion of the feedstock could reduce GHG emissions by 11% of the domestic sector's reduction target for 2020. Electricity generation from methane is also explored. The results presented encourage further investigation into the contribution of this resource to sustainable domestic energy supply. Furthermore, the proposed system would potentially protect a broad range of ecosystem services and maintain biodiversity.

Computer simulation of control strategies for optimal anaerobic digestion.Three previously published control strategies for anaerobic digestion were implemented in Simulink/Matlab using Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) to model the biological process. The controllers' performance were then simulated and evaluated based on their responses from five different types of process scenarios i.e. start-up and steady state performance as well as disturbances from concentration, pH and ammonia in the inflow. Of the three evaluated control strategies, the extremum-seeking variable gain controller gave the best overall performance. However, a proportional feedback controller based on the pH-level, used as a reference case in the evaluation, proved to give as good results as the extremum-seeking variable gain controller but with a lower wear on the pump. It was therefore concluded that a fast proportional control of the reactor pH is a key element for optimally controlling a low-buffering anaerobic digestion process.

Predicting the biochemical methane potential of wide range of organic substrates by near infrared spectroscopy.The use of near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) as an alternative method to predict the biochemical methane potential (BMP) of a broad range of organic substrates was investigated. A total of 296 samples including most of the substrates treated by anaerobic co-digestion were used for NIRS calibration and validation. The NIRS predictions of the BMP values were satisfactory (Root Mean Square Error = 40 ml CH(4) g(-1) VS(fed); r(2) = 0.85). The integration of the entire substrate diversity in the model remained nevertheless difficult due to the specific organic matter properties of stabilised substrates and the high level of uncertainty of the BMP values. The elaboration of a model restricted to "fresh" substrates allows the practical use of the NIR technique to design and operate anaerobic co-digestion plants. The addition of more samples in the dataset in order to perform local calibrations would probably make the elaboration of a global NIR-model possible.

Improvement of methane production from waste paper by pretreatment with rumen fluid.Cellulose hydrolysis is the rate-limiting step in anaerobic digestion. In the present study, waste paper was used as a model of cellulosic biomass and was pretreated with rumen fluid prior to methane production. To achieve a high methane yield, the reaction time of the pretreatment was examined. Waste paper was soaked with rumen fluid for 6 and 24h at 37 °C. Various volatile fatty acids, especially acetate, were produced by the pretreatment. Semicontinuous methane production was carried out over a 20-day period. The best daily methane yield was obtained by the 6-h pretreatment. The amount was 2.6 times higher than that of untreated paper, which resulted in 73.4% of the theoretical methane yield. During methane production, the cellulose, hemicellulose and lignin degradabilities were improved by the pretreatment. Pretreatment by rumen fluid is therefore a powerful method to accelerate the methane yield from a cellulosic biomass.

Response surface optimization of methane potentials in anaerobic co-digestion of multiple substrates: dairy, chicken manure and wheat straw.Dairy manure (DM), chicken manure (CM) and wheat straw were used to investigate the possibility of optimizing the methane (CH4) potentials in anaerobic co-digestion of multiple substrates. Response surface methodology (RSM) was used to evaluate the individual and interactive effects of four variables [carbon/nitrogen (C/N) ratio, the feeding composition (DM/CM), initial substrate loading and inoculum-to-substrate ratio (ISR)] in the digestion process. All four variables had significant effects on CH(4) potentials. Interactive effects of C/N and DM/CM ratios, C/N ratio and ISR, initial substrate loading and ISR were significant The optimum conditions were a C/N ratio of 26.31, a DM/CM ratio of 42.96:57.04, an initial loading of 15.90 g volatile solids (VS)/l and an ISR ratio of 2.34, with the maximum CH4 potential being 394 ml/g VS. The RSM model was appropriate for optimizing CH4 production in the process of anaerobic co-digestion of multiple substrates.

Application of dynamic models to estimate greenhouse gas emission by wastewater treatment plants of the pulp and paper industry.Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission in wastewater treatment plants of the pulp-and-paper industry was estimated by using a dynamic mathematical model. Significant variations were shown in the magnitude of GHG generation in response to variations in operating parameters, demonstrating the limited capacity of steady-state models in predicting the time-dependent emissions of these harmful gases. The examined treatment systems used aerobic, anaerobic, and hybrid-anaerobic/aerobic-biological processes along with chemical coagulation/flocculation, anaerobic digester, nitrification and denitrification processes, and biogas recovery. The pertinent operating parameters included the influent substrate concentration, influent flow rate, and temperature. Although the average predictions by the dynamic model were only 10 % different from those of steady-state model during 140 days of operation of the examined systems, the daily variations of GHG emissions were different up to ± 30, ± 19, and ± 17 % in the aerobic, anaerobic, and hybrid systems, respectively. The variations of process variables caused fluctuations in energy generation from biogas recovery by ± 6, ± 7, and ± 4 % in the three examined systems, respectively. The lowest variations were observed in the hybrid system, showing the stability of this particular process design.

High-solids anaerobic co-digestion of sewage sludge and food waste in comparison with mono digestions: stability and performance.System stability and performance of high-solids anaerobic co-digestion of dewatered sludge (DS) and food waste (FW) in comparison with mono digestions were investigated. System stability was improved in co-digestion systems with co-substrate acting as a diluting agent to toxic chemicals like ammonia or Na(+). For high-solids digestion of DS, the addition of FW not only improved system stability but also greatly enhanced volumetric biogas production. For high-solids digestion of FW, the addition of DS could reduce Na(+) concentration and help maintain satisfactory stability during the conversion of FW into biogas. System performances of co-digestion systems were mainly determined by the mixing ratios of DS and FW. Biogas production and volatile solids (VSs) reduction in digestion of the co-mixture of DS and FW increased linearly with higher ratios of FW. A kinetic model, which aimed to forecast the performance of co-digestion and to assist reactor design, was developed from long-term semi-continuous experiments. Maximum VS reduction for DS and FW was estimated to be 44.3% and 90.3%, respectively, and first order constant k was found to be 0.17d(-1) and 0.50 d(-1), respectively. Experimental data of co-digestion were in good conformity to the predictions of the model.

Microdialysis in early detection of temporary pancreatic ischemia in a porcine model.Ischemic injury to the pancreas occurs in various clinical conditions. A method for online monitoring of pathophysiological events in pancreatic parenchyma is missing.
To assess the timing of microdialysis (MD) technique response on temporary changes in pancreatic perfusion, and to evaluate the relationship between MD data and systemic markers of anaerobic metabolism and inflammation.
In anaesthetized normoventilated pigs, MD probes were placed in right (control) and left (ischemic) pancreatic lobes, respectively. Following the clamping of the vessels, ischemia was verified by tissue oxygen tension (P(ti)O(2)) measurements.
P(ti)O(2) decreased within 20 min after the clamping of the vessels, already returning to baseline levels at the first sampling point after the removal of the clamp. MD lactate levels increased, whereas pyruvate and glucose levels decreased at 20 min after the induction of ischemia. These trends continued until the end of ischemia and returned to baseline following reperfusion. Serum lactate, amylase and tumor necrosis factor-alpha levels decreased throughout the protocol time.
MD data were in concordance with changes in P(ti)O(2), which is indicative of local anaerobic metabolism. MD allowed the detection of pathophysiological processes within the ischemic pancreas at a stage when no elevations of systemic markers of ischemia or inflammation were observed.

Performance and energy economics of mesophilic and thermophilic digestion in anaerobic hybrid reactor treating coal wastewater.Two anaerobic hybrid AHRs (AHR), mesophilic (35 °C) and thermophilic (55 °C) were operated with coal wastewater at different hydraulic retention times (HRT) ranging from 3-0.5 to 3.12-0.6d with organic loading rates (OLR) of 1.12-6.72 g L(-1) d(-1). Synthetic coal wastewater with an average chemical oxygen demand (COD) of 2240 mg L(-1) and phenolics concentration of 752 mg L(-1) was used as substrate. At each HRT, the thermophilic AHR gave a better performance, measured in terms of phenolics/COD removal and gas production. The specific methane yield was also higher for thermophilic AHR at each HRT compared to mesophilic one. The volatile fatty acid concentration in the effluent increased with the lowering of HRT. The Stover-Kincannon model was applicable at both temperatures and showed higher substrate utilization in thermophilic AHR. Energy economic study of the AHRs revealed that 11,938 MJ d(-1) more energy can be generated using thermophilic AHR than mesophilic.

End-of-life of starch-polyvinyl alcohol biopolymers.This study presents a life cycle assessment (LCA) model comparing the waste management options for starch-polyvinyl alcohol (PVOH) biopolymers including landfill, anaerobic digestion (AD), industrial composting and home composting. The ranking of biological treatment routes for starch-PVOH biopolymer wastes depended on their chemical compositions. AD represents the optimum choice for starch-PVOH biopolymer containing N and S elements in global warming potential (GWP(100)), acidification and eutrophication but not on the remaining impact categories, where home composting was shown to be a better option due to its low energy and resource inputs. For those starch-PVOH biopolymers with zero N and S contents home composting delivered the best environmental performance amongst biological treatment routes in most impact categories (except for GWP(100)). The landfill scenario performed generally well due largely to the 100-year time horizon and efficient energy recovery system modeled but this good performance is highly sensitive to assumptions adopted in landfill model.

Application of Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 for describing anaerobic digestion of grass, maize, green weed silage, and industrial glycerine.Anaerobic digestion of organic waste plays an important role for the development of sustainable energy supply based on renewable resources. For further process optimization of anaerobic digestion, biogas production with the commonly used substrates, grass, maize, and green weed silage, together with industrial glycerine, were analyzed by the Weender analysis/van Soest method, and a simulation study was performed, based on the International Water Association's (IWA) Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1). The simplex algorithm was applied to optimize kinetic constants for disintegration and hydrolysis steps for all examined substrates. Consequently, new parameters were determined for each evaluated substrate, tested against experimental cumulative biogas production results, and assessed against ADM1 default values for disintegration and hydrolysis kinetic constants, where the ADM1 values for mesophilic high rate and ADM1 values for solids were used. Results of the optimization lead to a precise prediction of the kinetics of anaerobic degradation of complex substrates.

Mathematical modeling of upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor treating domestic wastewater.Although the upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor has been widely applied for domestic wastewater treatment in many developing countries, there is no sufficient mathematical model for proper design and operation of the reactor. An empirical model based on non-linear regression was developed to represent the physical and chemical removal of suspended solids (SS) in the reactor. Moreover, a simplified dynamic model based on ADM1 and the empirical model for SS removal was developed for anaerobic digestion of the entrapped SS and dissolved matter in the wastewater. The empirical model showed that effluent suspended chemical oxygen demand (COD(ss)) concentration is directly proportional to the influent COD(ss) concentration and inversely proportional to both the hydraulic retention time (HRT) of the reactor and wastewater temperature. For obtaining sufficient COD(ss) removal, the HRT of the UASB reactor must be higher than 4 h, and higher HRT than 12 h slightly improved COD(ss) removal. The dynamic model results showed that the required time for filling the reactor with sludge mainly depends on influent total chemical oxygen demand (COD(t)) concentration and HRT. The influent COD(t) concentration, HRT and temperature play a crucial role on the performance of the reactor. The results indicated that shorter HRT is needed for optimization of COD(t) removal, as compared with optimization of COD(t) conversion to methane. Based on the model results, the design HRT of the UASB reactor should be selected based on the optimization of wastewater conversion and minimization of biodegradable SS accumulation in the sludge bed, not only based on COD removal, to guarantee a stable reactor performance.

Formulation development and in-vitro/in-vivo correlation for a novel Sterculia gum-based oral colon-targeted drug delivery system of azathioprine.The present study was aimed at designing a microflora triggered colon-targeted drug delivery system (MCDDS) based on swellable polysaccharide, Sterculia gum in combination with biodegradable polymers with a view to target azathioprine (AZA) in the colon for the treatment of IBD with reduced systemic toxicity. The microflora degradation study of gum was investigated in rat cecal medium. The polysaccharide tablet was coated to different film thicknesses with blends of chitosan/Eudragit RLPO and over coated with Eudragit L00 to provide acid and intestinal resistance. Swelling and drug release studies were carried out in simulated gastric fluid (SGF) (pH 1.2), simulated intestinal fluid (SIF) (pH 6.8) and simulated colonic fluid (SCF) (pH 7.4 under anaerobic environment), respectively. Drug release study in SCF revealed that swelling force of the gum could concurrently drive the drug out of the polysaccharide core due to the rupture of the chitosan/Eudragit coating in microflora-activated environment. Chitosan in the mixed film coat was found to be degraded by enzymatic action of the microflora in the colon. Release kinetic data revealed that, the optimized MCDDS was fitted well into first order model and apparent lag time was found to be 6 h, followed by Higuchi spherical matrix release. The degradation of chitosan was the rate-limiting factor for drug release in the colon. In-vivo study in rabbit shows delayed T(max), prolonged absorption time, decreased C(max) and absorption rate constant (Ka) indicating reduced systemic toxicity of the drug as compared to other dosage forms.

The salmonella transcriptome in lettuce and cilantro soft rot reveals a niche overlap with the animal host intestine.Fresh vegetables have been recurrently associated with salmonellosis outbreaks, and Salmonella contamination of retail produce has been correlated positively with the presence of soft rot disease. We observed that population sizes of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium SL1344 increased 56-fold when inoculated alone onto cilantro leaves, versus 2,884-fold when coinoculated with Dickeya dadantii, a prevalent pathogen that macerates plant tissue. A similar trend in S. enterica populations was observed for soft-rotted lettuce leaves. Transcriptome analysis of S. enterica cells that colonized D. dadantii-infected lettuce and cilantro leaves revealed a clear shift toward anaerobic metabolism and catabolism of substrates that are available due to the degradation of plant cells by the pectinolytic pathogen. Twenty-nine percent of the genes that were upregulated in cilantro macerates were also previously observed to have increased expression levels in the chicken intestine. Furthermore, multiple genes induced in soft rot lesions are also involved in the colonization of mouse, pig, and bovine models of host infection. Among those genes, the operons for ethanolamine and propanediol utilization as well as for the synthesis of cobalamin, a cofactor in these pathways, were the most highly upregulated genes in lettuce and cilantro lesions. In S. Typhimurium strain LT2, population sizes of mutants deficient in propanediol utilization or cobalamin synthesis were 10- and 3-fold lower, respectively, than those of the wild-type strain in macerated cilantro (P < 0.0002); in strain SL1344, such mutants behaved similarly to the parental strain. Anaerobic conditions and the utilization of nutrients in macerated plant tissue that are also present in the animal intestine indicate a niche overlap that may explain the high level of adaptation of S. enterica to soft rot lesions, a common postharvest plant disease.

The viscoelastic behaviour of raw and anaerobic digested sludge: strong similarities with soft-glassy materials.Over the last few decades, municipal and industrial wastewater treatment activities have been confronted with a dramatically increasing flow of sewage sludge. To improve treatment efficiency, process and material parameters are needed but engineers are dealing with vast quantities of fundamentally poorly understood and unpredictable material Thus, accurate prediction of critically important, but analytically elusive process parameters is unattainable and is a matter of grave concern. Because engineers need reliable flow properties to simulate the process, this work is an attempt to approach sludge rheological behaviour with well-known materials which have similar characteristics. Sludge liquid-like behaviour is already well documented so, we have focused mainly on the solid-like behaviour of both raw and digested sludge by performing oscillatory measurements in the linear and non-linear regimes. We have shown that the viscoelastic behaviour of sludge presents strong similarities with soft-glassy materials but differences can be observed between raw and digested sludge. Finally, we confirm that colloidal glasses and emulsions may be used to model the rheological behaviour of raw and anaerobic digested sludge.

Effect of maternal probiotic intervention on HPA axis, immunity and gut microbiota in a rat model of irritable bowel syndrome.To examine whether maternal probiotic intervention influences the alterations in the brain-immune-gut axis induced by neonatal maternal separation (MS) and/or restraint stress in adulthood (AS) in Wistar rats.
Dams had free access to drinking water supplemented with Bifidobacterium animalis subsp lactis BB-12® (3 × 10(9) CFU/mL) and Propionibacterium jensenii 702 (8.0 × 10(8) CFU/mL) from 10 days before conception until postnatal day (PND) 22 (weaning day), or to control ad lib water. Offspring were subjected to MS from PND 2 to 14 or left undisturbed. From PND 83 to 85, animals underwent 30 min/day AS, or were left undisturbed as controls. On PND 24 and 86, blood samples were collected for corticosterone, ACTH and IgA measurement. Colonic contents were analysed for the composition of microflora and luminal IgA levels.
Exposure to MS significantly increased ACTH levels and neonatal fecal counts of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, E. coli, enterococci and clostridia, but reduced plasma IgA levels compared with non-MS animals. Animals exposed to AS exhibited significantly increased ACTH and corticosterone levels, decreased aerobic bacteria and bifidobacteria, and increased Bacteroides and E. coli counts compared to non-AS animals. MS coupled with AS induced significantly decreased anaerobes and clostridia compared with the non-stress adult controls. Maternal probiotic intervention significantly increased neonatal corticosterone levels which persisted until at least week 12 in females only, and also resulted in elevated adult ACTH levels and altered neonatal microflora comparable to that of MS. However, it improved plasma IgA responses, increased enterococci and clostridia in MS adults, increased luminal IgA levels, and restored anaerobes, bifidobacteria and E. coli to normal in adults.
Maternal probiotic intervention induced activation of neonatal stress pathways and an imbalance in gut microflora. Importantly however, it improved the immune environment of stressed animals and protected, in part, against stress-induced disturbances in adult gut microflora.

Scavenger receptor class a plays a central role in mediating mortality and the development of the pro-inflammatory phenotype in polymicrobial sepsis.Sepsis is a frequent complication in critical illness. The mechanisms that are involved in initiation and propagation of the disease are not well understood. Scavenger receptor A (SRA) is a membrane receptor that binds multiple polyanions such as oxidized LDL and endotoxin. Recent studies suggest that SRA acts as a pattern recognition receptor in the innate immune response. The goal of the present study was to determine the role of SRA in polymicrobial sepsis. SRA deficient (SRA(-/-)) and C57BL/6JB/6J (WT) male mice were subjected to cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) to induce polymicrobial sepsis. NFκB activity, myeloperoxidase activity, and co-association of SRA with toll like receptor (TLR) 4 and TLR2 was analyzed in the lungs. Spleens were analyzed for apoptosis. Serum cytokines and chemokines were assayed. Blood and peritoneal fluid were cultured for aerobic and anaerobic bacterial burdens. Long-term survival was significantly increased in SRA(-/-) septic mice (53.6% vs. 3.6%, p < 0.05) when compared to WT mice. NFκB activity was 45.5% lower in the lungs of SRA(-/-) septic mice versus WT septic mice (p < 0.05). Serum levels of interleukin (IL)-5, IL-6, IL-10 and monocyte chemoattractant protein -1 were significantly lower in septic SRA(-/-) mice when compared to septic WT mice (p < 0.05). We found that SRA immuno-precipitated with TLR4, but not TLR2, in the lungs of WT septic mice. We also found that septic SRA(-/-) mice had lower bacterial burdens than WT septic mice. SRA deficiency had no effect on pulmonary neutrophil infiltration or splenocyte apoptosis during sepsis. We conclude that SRA plays a pivotal, and previously unknown, role in mediating the pathophysiology of sepsis/septic shock in a murine model of polymicrobial sepsis. Mechanistically, SRA interacts with TLR4 to enhance the development of the pro-inflammatory phenotype and mediate the morbidity and mortality of sepsis/septic shock.

The kinetics of process dependent ammonia inhibition of methanogenesis from acetic acid.Advanced anaerobic digestion processes aimed at improving the methanization of sewage sludge may be potentially impaired by the production of inhibitory compounds (e.g. free ammonia). The result of methanogenic inhibition is relatively high effluent concentrations of acetic acid and other soluble organics, as well as reduced methane yields. An extreme example of such an advanced process is the thermal hydrolytic pretreatment of sludge prior to high solids digestion (THD). Compared to a conventional mesophilic anaerobic digestion process (MAD), THD operates in a state of constant inhibition driven by high free ammonia concentrations, and elevated pH values. As such, previous investigations of the kinetics of methanogenesis from acetic acid under uninhibited conditions do not necessarily apply well to the modeling of extreme processes such as THD. By conducting batch ammonia toxicity assays using biomass from THD and MAD reactors, we compared the response of these communities over a broad range of ammonia inhibition. For both processes, increased inhibitor concentrations resulted in a reduction of biomass growth rate (r(max) = μ(max)∙X) and a resulting decrease in the substrate half saturation coefficient (K(S)). These two parameters exhibited a high degree of correlation, suggesting that for a constant transport limited system, the K(S) was mostly a linear function of the growth rate. After correcting for reactor pH and temperature, we found that the THD and MAD biomass were both able to perform methanogenesis from acetate at high free ammonia concentrations (equivalent to 3-5 g/L total ammonia nitrogen), albeit at less than 30% of their respective maximum rates. The reduction in methane production was slightly less pronounced for the THD biomass than for MAD, suggesting that the long term exposure to ammonia had selected for a methanogenic pathway less dependent on those organisms most sensitive to ammonia inhibition (i.e. aceticlastic methanogens).

Long-term hydrolytic capacity evaluation of a thermophilic anaerobic digester treating sewage sludge.This study presents an evaluation of the hydrolytic activity of a continuous thermophilic anaerobic reactor in long-term operation. The hydrolytic coefficient was estimated by fitting a three-reaction model of the anaerobic digestion process with experimental data obtained from a pilot thermophilic digester operated for about 2 years. The model fitting and the cross-validation indicate that this model can represent the behavior of the system in a proper way; moreover, the results show a variation of the hydrolytic capacity of the system throughout the evaluation period. The increase in the hydrolytic coefficient is in agreement with the increase in the organic load applied to the reactor, which shows the capacity of the continuous reactor to select populations according to the input conditions of the system.

The implementation of anaerobic digestion of food waste in a highly populated urban area: an LCA evaluation.While source separation of waste packaging materials for recycling is well established in several metropolitan areas, the collection of food waste from the households is less widespread because of its more difficult implementation. Source segregation of food waste in densely populated areas is raising new interest, as the availability of biogas following its anaerobic digestion (AD) paves the road to a number of possibilities, from electric energy production to its upgrading to biomethane and subsequent feeding in to the natural gas network or in vehicles as a fuel. The study addresses this waste management option by analysing a real metropolitan situation where food waste currently ends up mixed with the residual waste in a waste-to-energy plant (WTE). We assume to establish a new collection scheme for household food waste, followed by its treatment in a new AD and post-composting facility. A comparative life cycle assessment was carried out, where possible synergies between the existing WTE plant and the new one were evaluated. All new scenarios based on AD attained similar or better results compared with the reference scenario for almost all of the impact indicators. The most robust indication is related to global warming potential, with a potential improvement of up to 37%. Finally, a sensitivity analysis was carried out to assess the effect of the variation of the most relevant parameters. Results have proven to be very sensible to the hypothesis on the type of substituted electric energy. All the other examined sensitivities resulted in variations well below 10%.

Rate determination of supercritical water gasification of primary sewage sludge as a replacement for anaerobic digestion.Supercritical water gasification of primary sewage sludge sampled from a local facility was undertaken at different solids content. The performance of the process was compared with the anaerobic digestion system in use at the facility where the samples were taken. The mass and composition of the vapor products documented showed that the process generates more energy per gram of feed while rapidly destroying more volatile solids relative to the anaerobic digestion process. However, the energy input requirements are greater for supercritical water gasification. This study defines parameters for a model of the gasification reaction using the power law and Arrhenius equation. The activation energy was estimated to be 15 kJ/mol, and the reaction order was estimated to be 0.586. This model allows estimation of the size of a supercritical water reactor needed to replace the anaerobic digesters that are currently used at the wastewater treatment plant.

Importance of heat transfer in an anaerobic digestion plant in a continental climate context.Investigation on the sensivity to temperature variations has been achieved on a full-scale experimental dairy wastewater treatment plant including an unheated but insulated upflow anaerobic sludge blanket. A simple steady-state heat transfer model based on energy balance has been designed to forecast the biogas production depending on ambient air and dairy wastewater temperatures variations. Energy balance has been described for any part of the digestion plant. Calculated heat losses were in the same range than observed losses with an uncertainty of about 10%. From the equalization tank to the digester the average heat loss under cold period was close to 10°C due to convection and conduction. Mesophilic conditions are not respected for couples of ambient air and wastewater temperatures ranging respectively from 8-35 to 35-29°C. Technical solutions are suggested to increase the biogas production.

Experimental and modeling study of a two-stage pilot scale high solid anaerobic digester system.This study established a comprehensive model to configure a new two-stage high solid anaerobic digester (HSAD) system designed for highly degradable organic fraction of municipal solid wastes (OFMSW). The HSAD reactor as the first stage was naturally separated into two zones due to biogas floatation and low specific gravity of solid waste. The solid waste was retained in the upper zone while only the liquid leachate resided in the lower zone of the HSAD reactor. Continuous stirred-tank reactor (CSTR) and advective-diffusive reactor (ADR) models were constructed in series to describe the whole system. Anaerobic digestion model No. 1 (ADM1) was used as reaction kinetics and incorporated into each reactor module. Compared with the experimental data, the simulation results indicated that the model was able to well predict the pH, volatile fatty acid (VFA) and biogas production.

In-storage psychrophilic anaerobic digestion: acclimated microbial kinetics.In-storage psychrophilic anaerobic digestion develops by microbial acclimation in covered swine-manure storage tanks, producing CH4 and stabilizing organic matter. To optimize the system's performance, the process kinetics must be understood. The objective of this study was to evaluate kinetic parameters describing the major stages in the digestion process, and to investigate the effect of temperature acclimation on these parameters. Specific activity tests were performed using manure inocula and five substrates at three incubation temperatures. Extant substrate activities were determined analytically for each case, and intrinsic kinetic parameters for glucose uptake were estimated by grid search fitting to the Monod model. The results demonstrate that this acclimated microbial community exhibits different kinetic parameters to those of the mesophilic communities currently modelled in the literature, with increased activity at low temperatures, varying with substrate and temperature. For glucose, the higher uptake is accompanied by lower microbial yield and half-saturation constant. Decomposing these values suggests that active psychrophilic and mesophilic microbial populations co-exist within the community. This work also confirms that a new method of assessing microbial substrate kinetics must be developed for manure microbial communities, separating microbial mass from other suspended organics.

Hepatic and abdominal carbon dioxide measurements detect and distinguish hepatic artery occlusion and portal vein occlusion in pigs.Hepatic artery (HA) occlusion and portal vein (PV) occlusion are the most common vascular complications after liver transplantation with an impact on mortality and retransplantation rates. The detection of severe hypoperfusion may be delayed with currently available diagnostic tools. Hypoperfusion and anaerobically produced lactic acid lead to increases in tissue carbon dioxide. We investigated whether the continuous assessment of the intrahepatic and intra-abdominal partial pressure of carbon dioxide (PCO(2) ) could be used to detect and distinguish HA and PV occlusions in real time. In 13 pigs, the HA and the PV were fully occluded (n = 7) or gradually occluded (n = 6). PCO(2) was monitored intrahepatically and between loops of small intestine. The hepatic and intestinal metabolism was assessed with microdialysis and PV as well as hepatic vein blood samples, and the results were compared to clinical parameters for the systemic circulation and blood gas analysis. Total HA occlusion led to significant increases in hepatic PCO(2) and lactate, and this was accompanied by significant decreases in the partial pressure of oxygen and glucose. PV occlusion induced a significant increase in intestinal PCO(2) (but not hepatic PCO(2) ) along with significant increases in intestinal lactate and glycerol. Gradual HA occlusion and PV occlusion caused steady hepatic and intestinal PCO(2) increases, respectively. Systemic clinical parameters such as the blood pressure, heart rate, and cardiac output were affected only by PV occlusion. In conclusion, even gradual HA occlusion affects liver metabolism and can be reliably identified with hepatic PCO(2) measurements. Intestinal PCO(2) increases only during PV occlusion. A combination of hepatic and intestinal PCO(2) measurements can reliably diagnose the affected vessel and depict the severity of the occlusion, and this may emerge as a potential real-time clinical monitoring tool for the postoperative course of liver transplantation and enable early interventions.

Impact of substrate overloading on archaeal populations in anaerobic digestion of animal waste.To characterize adaptive changes in methanogenic microbial community in response to substrate overloading and identify potential linkages between process performance and microbial community composition.
Triplicate continuous anaerobic digesters were developed as model anaerobic digestion processes, which were subsequently disrupted by substrate overloading. The clone library analysis of archaeal communities experiencing substrate overloading showed that populations related to Methanosaeta were the dominant methanogens before and after substrate overloading, suggesting the functional importance of these acetoclastic methanogens in balanced anaerobic digestion processes characterized with low organic acids concentrations. Population redundancy in Methanosaeta increased following substrate overloading with the emergence of additional populations of Methanosaeta. More importantly, the methanogenic community responded to process imbalance with greater functional diversity with increased abundance of functionally distinct hydrogenotrophic and acetoclastic methanogens, which likely enhanced the functional stability of anaerobic digestion during disruptions in the anaerobic food web under process perturbation. Crenarchaeota were identified as persistent constituents of the archaeal communities in anaerobic digestion, warranting further efforts to identifying the functions of these phylogenetically distinct populations in anaerobic digestion.
Substrate overloading in anaerobic digestion resulted in an increased functional diversity of the methanogenic community, which enhanced the capacity to overcome subsequent occurrences of process perturbations without performance disruption, providing a potential strategy to maintain process stability in anaerobic digestion.
Anaerobic digestion is a sustainable option for waste treatment and renewable energy production. However, process instability resulting from variations in substrate loading has been one of the obstacles to the broader adoption of anaerobic digestion technology. Insight into the linkages between process performance and microbial community gained in this study is valuable for developing strategies for the mitigation of the impact of substrate overloading on anaerobic digestion processes.

Sulforaphane protects small intestinal mucosa from aspirin/NSAID-induced injury by enhancing host defense systems against oxidative stress and by inhibiting mucosal invasion of anaerobic enterobacteria.Recent studies have shown that daily use of NSAIDs, frequently causes small intestinal ulcers and erosions. However, effective drugs to prevent aspirin/NSAIDs-induced small intestinal lesions have not been developed. In the present study, we examined the effects of sulforaphane (SFN), a substance rich in broccoli sprouts, on aspirin/NSAIDs-induced small intestinal injury.
1. In vitro study: IEC6 cells, derived from rat small intestinal mucosae, were incubated with or without SFN. The cells were subsequently exposed to aspirin. In some experiments, the effect of zinc protoporphyrin-IX (ZnPP), 0.1 μM, an inhibitor of heme oxygenase- 1 (HO-1), was also examined. 2. In vivo study: IND-induced small intestinal mucosal injury was induced in male ddY mice. SFN glucosinolates (SGS), which is glucosinolates precursor of SFN, was orally administered to the mice, at dose of 17 mg/mouse, before and after the injection of IND. Vascular permeability was assessed by measuring the amount of exudated Evans Blue in the mucosa, which had been injected intravenously. Neutrophil activation was evaluated by myeloperoxidase (MPO) activity. Amount of mucosal anaerobic bacteria was also measured.
1. In vitro study: (1) SFN, 5 μM, significantly attenuated aspirin (20 mM)-induced cell injury. (2) SFN enhanced HO-1 expression in IEC-6 cells. The protective effect of SFN against aspirin-induced injury was attenuated by 0.1 μM ZnPP. 2. In vivo study: (1) IND treatment caused mucosal injury in small intestine, increased vascular permeability, enhanced MPO activity, and augmented mucosal invasion of anaerobic enterobacteria. (2) SGS attenuated the IND-induced small intestinal injury. (3) SGS prevented the IND-induced increase in mucosal invasion of anaerobic enterobacteria.
These results suggest that SFN protects small intestine from aspirin / NSAIDs-induced injury, presumably by up-regulating nrf2-keap1 dependent antioxidant system and by inhibiting invasion of anaerobic bacteria into the mucosa.

Fermentation characteristics of resistant starch from maize prepared by the enzymatic method in vitro.To investigate the fermentation characteristics of resistant starch prepared by hydrolysing maize starch with α-amylase and pullulanase, fresh faecal extracts from healthy humans and infants were used as a fermentation model of human intestines in vitro. The RS was fermented for a certain period of time under the simulated condition of the large intestines (anaerobic and 37°C). The concentration of short-chain fatty acids in the fermented product as determined by gas chromatography was used as an index to characterise the fermentation effect. The results showed that the concentration of short-chain fatty acids, especially butyric acid, in the fermented product gradually increased with increased fermentation time and RS content. However, the concentration of short-chain fatty acids in the fermented product from healthy infant faecal extracts, especially butyric acid, was much higher than that from healthy adult faecal extracts. It suggested that the model of RS-produced acids was affected by the fermentation extract source, i.e., by the existence of microbial flora. The production model of acids demonstrated that maize RS prepared by the enzymatic method can be a promising ingredient of functional foods.

Biomass-to-electricity: analysis and optimization of the complete pathway steam explosion--enzymatic hydrolysis--anaerobic digestion with ICE vs SOFC as biogas users.The paper deals with the energy analysis and optimization of a complete biomass-to-electricity energy pathway, starting from raw biomass towards the production of renewable electricity. The first step (biomass-to-biogas) is based on a real pilot plant located in Environment Park S.p.A. (Torino, Italy) with three main steps ((1) impregnation; (2) steam explosion; (3) enzymatic hydrolysis), completed by a two-step anaerobic fermentation. In the second step (biogas-to-electricity), the paper considers two technologies: internal combustion engines and a stack of solid oxide fuel cells. First, the complete pathway has been modeled and validated through experimental data. After, the model has been used for an analysis and optimization of the complete thermo-chemical and biological process, with the objective function of maximization of the energy balance at minimum consumption. The comparison between ICE and SOFC shows the better performance of the integrated plants based on SOFC.

ADM1 performance using SS-OFMSW with non-acclimated inoculums.This paper assesses the anaerobic digestion (AD) of the source-sorted organic fraction of municipal solid waste (SS-OFMSW). For this purpose, an experimental programme was implemented involving the operation and monitoring of two bench-scale anaerobic digesters, continuously fed with SS-OFMSW. The mathematical model (ADM1) was then applied to simulate the process of AD of SS-OFMSW. While start-up of the digesters was relatively slow, re-inoculation with cattle manure with effluent dilution reduced the acclimation period and achieved better stability, accommodating a feeding rate at an OLR = 2.39 kg TVS m(-3) day(-1). The high recorded methane gas production rate, reaching (0.1-2.5 m(3) CH(4)/m(3) reactor day), confirms the excellent biodegradability of the type of waste used (SS-OFMSW) and its suitability for AD. Satisfactory simulations of soluble chemical oxygen demand (COD), pH, and methane composition of biogas were obtained, whereas volatile fatty acid (VFA) concentrations in both reactors were over-predicted albeit capturing its general trend.

Mechanistic studies of semicarbazone triapine targeting human ribonucleotide reductase in vitro and in mammalian cells: tyrosyl radical quenching not involving reactive oxygen species.Triapine® (3-aminopyridine-2-carboxaldehyde thiosemicarbazone (3-AP)) is a drug in Phase II trials. One of its established cellular targets is the β(2) subunit of ribonucleotide reductase that requires a diferric-tyrosyl-radical [(Fe(III)(2)-Y·)(Fe(III)(2))] cofactor for de novo DNA biosynthesis. Several mechanisms for 3-AP inhibition of β(2) have been proposed; one involves direct iron chelation from β(2), whereas a second involves Y· destruction by reactive oxygen species formed in situ in the presence of O(2) and reductant by Fe(II)-(3-AP). Inactivation of β(2) can thus arise from cofactor destruction by loss of iron or Y·. In vitro kinetic data on the rates of (55)Fe and Y· loss from [((55)Fe(III)(2)-Y·)((55)Fe(III)(2))]-β(2) under aerobic and anaerobic conditions reveal that Y· loss alone is sufficient for rapid β(2) inactivation. Oxyblot(TM) and mass spectrometric analyses of trypsin-digested inhibited β(2), and lack of Y· loss from H(2)O(2) and O(2)(•) treatment together preclude reactive oxygen species involvement in Y· loss. Three mammalian cell lines treated with 5 μm 3-AP reveal Y· loss and β(2) inactivation within 30-min of 3-AP-exposure, analyzed by whole-cell EPR and lysate assays, respectively. Selective degradation of apo- over [(Fe(III)(2)-Y·)(Fe(III)(2))]-β(2) in lysates, similar iron-content in β(2) immunoprecipitated from 3-AP-treated and untreated [(55)Fe]-prelabeled cells, and prolonged (12 h) stability of the inhibited β(2) are most consistent with Y· loss being the predominant mode of inhibition, with β(2) remaining iron-loaded and stable. A model consistent with in vitro and cell-based biochemical studies is presented in which Fe(II)-(3-AP), which can be cycled with reductant, directly reduces Y· of the [(Fe(III)(2)-Y·)(Fe(III)(2))] cofactor of β(2).

Analysis of a model for the effects of an external toxin on anaerobic digestion.Anaerobic digestion has been modeled as a two-stage process using coupled chemostat models with non-monotone growth functions, [9]. This study incorporates the effects of an external toxin. After reducing the model to a 3-dimensional system, global stability of boundary and interior equilibria is proved using differential inequalities and comparisons to the corresponding toxin-free model. Conditions are given under which the behavior of the toxin-free model is preserved. Introduction of the toxin results in additional patterns such as bistabilities of coexistence steady states or of a periodic orbit and an interior steady state.

Salmonella "sops" up a preferred electron receptor in the inflamed intestine.The microbiota of the mammalian intestinal tract represents a formidable barrier to colonization by pathogens. To overcome this resistance to colonization, bacterial pathogens use virulence factors to induce intestinal inflammation, which liberates nutrients for selective use by the infecting microbe. Studies of Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium (S. Typhimurium) infection in a streptomycin-treated mouse colitis model show how virulence factor-induced inflammation can produce nutrients used selectively by the pathogen. Type III secreted effectors of invading S. Typhimurium induce inflammation in the intestine (epithelial cells and lamina propria macrophages) that causes changes in the composition of the lumen. For example, neutrophils entering the intestine produce superoxide, resulting in production of tetrathionate, which S. Typhimurium in the lumen uses as an electron acceptor for anaerobic respiration. In their recent study, Lopez et al. demonstrate that S. Typhimurium strains that are lysogenized with a phage encoding type III effector SopE induce the host to produce nitric oxide synthetase (iNOS) in the intestine (C. A. Lopez et al., mBio 3:e00143-12, 2012). Nitric oxide is converted to a highly favorable electron acceptor, nitrate. As a result, growth of sopE(+) S. Typhimurium in the intestine lumen is boosted by nitrate respiration. This is a striking example of how acquisition of a virulence factor by horizontal gene transfer can increase the metabolic fitness of a pathogen. Interestingly, survival of the invading bacteria is probably decreased as a result of the SopE-induced immune response, and yet the S. Typhimurium bacteria that multiply in the lumen of the intestine can efficiently disseminate to another host, ensuring success for the pathogen.

Methanogenic activity tests by Infrared Tunable Diode Laser Absorption Spectroscopy.Methanogenic activity (MA) tests are commonly carried out to estimate the capability of anaerobic biomass to treat effluents, to evaluate anaerobic activity in bioreactors or natural ecosystems, or to quantify inhibitory effects on methanogenic activity. These activity tests are usually based on the measurement of the volume of biogas produced by volumetric, pressure increase or gas chromatography (GC) methods. In this study, we present an alternative method for non-invasive measurement of methane produced during activity tests in closed vials, based on Infrared Tunable Diode Laser Absorption Spectroscopy (MA-TDLAS). This new method was tested during model acetoclastic and hydrogenotrophic methanogenic activity tests and was compared to a more traditional method based on gas chromatography. From the results obtained, the CH(4) detection limit of the method was estimated to 60 ppm and the minimum measurable methane production rate was estimated to 1.09(.)10(-3) mg l(-1) h(-1), which is below CH(4) production rate usually reported in both anaerobic reactors and natural ecosystems. Additionally to sensitivity, the method has several potential interests compared to more traditional methods among which short measurements time allowing the measurement of a large number of MA test vials, non-invasive measurements avoiding leakage or external interferences and similar cost to GC based methods. It is concluded that MA-TDLAS is a promising method that could be of interest not only in the field of anaerobic digestion but also, in the field of environmental ecology where CH(4) production rates are usually very low.

Modelling sodium inhibition on the anaerobic digestion process.Sodium is a known process inhibitor in anaerobic systems and impacts on methanogens through an increase of osmotic pressure or complete dehydration of microorganisms. In this study, a combination of experimental and modelling approaches has been employed to determine and simulate sodium inhibition on the anaerobic digestion process. The ADM1, which has been successfully used in modelling anaerobic processes, has been modified to include an extra inhibition function that considers the effect of sodium on acetoclastic methanogens and the impact on biogas production and composition. A non-competitive inhibition function was added to the rate of acetate uptake for the model to take into account sodium toxicity. Experimental studies consisted of both batch and reactor tests to obtain parameters for model calibration and validation. The calibrated model was used to predict the effect of ammonia nitrogen on sodium toxicity. It was found that relatively low sodium levels can bring about significant levels of process inhibition in the presence of high levels of ammonia. On the other hand, where the concentration of ammonia is relatively low, the tolerance threshold for sodium ions increases. Hence, care must be taken in the use of sodium hydroxide for pH adjustment during anaerobic digestion of protein-rich substrates.

Inhibition effect of swine wastewater heavy metals and antibiotics on anammox activity.The feasibility of anaerobic ammonium oxidation (anammox) process to treat wastewaters containing antibiotics and heavy metals (such as the liquid fraction of the anaerobically digested swine manure) was studied in this work. The specific anammox activity (SAA) was evaluated by means of manometric batch tests. The effects of oxytetracycline, sulfathiazole, copper and zinc were studied. The experimental data of the short-term assays were fitted with an inhibition model to identify the half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC(50)). After 24 h exposures, IC(50)-values equal to 1.9, 3.9, 650 and 1,100 mg L(-1) were identified for copper, zinc, sulfathiazole and tetracycline respectively. The effect of prolonged exposure (14 days) to oxytetracycline and sulfathiazole was studied by means of repeated batch-assays. Anabolism and catabolism reactions were active during the inhibition tests indicating that anammox bacteria could grow even in the extreme conditions tested. Considering the average concentrations expected in swine wastewaters, the inhibitors studied do not seem to represent a problem for the application of the anammox process. However, in order to verify the effect of these compounds on the growth of anammox bacteria, continuous culture experiments could be conducted.

Prediction of hydrogen sulphide production during anaerobic digestion of organic substrates.The main objective of this study was to develop a methodology to predict the hydrogen sulphide content of raw biogas produced during anaerobic mono-digestion of a bioenergy feedstock. Detailed chemical and biological analyses were made on 37 different feedstocks originating from urban wastewater treatment plants, farms, agri-food facilities and municipal wastes. Total sulphur content ranged from 1 to 29.6 mg S/kg of total solids, and 66% of the feedstocks analysed contained less than 5 mg S/kg of total solids. The biochemical methanogenic potential and biochemical biogas potential of each feedstock combined with its S content were used to predict appearance of H(2)S in the raw biogas. A model to link H(2)S in biogas with the carbon:sulphur ratio was established. Based on this model, a minimum carbon:sulphur ratio of 40 is required in feedstock to limit the concentration of hydrogen sulphide in raw biogas to less than 2% (volume/volume).

Inhibition of methanogenesis by chlorophenols: a kinetic approach.Chlorophenols exert a crucial effect on the methanogenesis, considerably reducing both maximum methane potential and methanogenic rates. However, there is not enough information about the kinetic mechanism of chlorophenols toxicity on the methanogenesis, which is a key aspect for the control of the anaerobic digesters because of the sensitivity and the potential for energy recovery derived from methane release. The International Water Association-Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (IWA-ADM1) can be adapted to a wide range of situations by updating or changing the equations in the model. The present study proposes a general kinetic model for methanogenesis. This model has been applied to predict the inhibition of methanogenesis by chlorophenols, and it can be used for updating the IWA-ADM1 when treating inhibitory compounds. The model was calibrated and validated using a wide broad of experimental sets of data of methane production by granular sludge in the presence of 2,4-dichlorophenol (24 DCP), 2,4,6-trichlorophenol (246TCP) and pentachlorophenol (PCP) in batch assays. A lag-phase of the effect of chlorophenols on the methanogenesis by non-adapted sludge was detected and modeled by the kinetic model proposed. In addition, the inhibitory effect of PCP was more pronounced on the acetoclastic methanogenesis than on the hydrogenotrophic one. Non-competitive and uncompetitive inhibition types were detected using 24 DCP and 246 TCP, whereas a suicide or irreversible inhibition type was observed in the case of PCP. Values of inhibition constants considerably varied depending on the chlorophenol used, between 45 mg24DCPL(-1), 41-51 mg246TCPL(-1) and 0.9-7.8 mgPCPL(-1). The higher toxicity of PCP is related with its hydrophobicity, which was determined by adsorption tests and using partition coefficients n-octanol/water. Modeling was accompanied by high statistical support in all cases, which confirmed the validation of the model proposed.

An assessment of the feasibility of employing biochemical acidogenic potential tests for characterizing anaerobic biodegradability of raw and pretreated waste activated sludge.The potential to use the results of biochemical acid potential (BAP) tests to predict the ultimate digestibility of raw and pretreated waste activated sludge (WAS) was investigated. The ultimate methane production from biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests on raw and pretreated samples which spanned a range of biodegradability proved linearly related to the volatile fatty acid (VFA) and soluble chemical oxygen demand (COD) production in corresponding BAP tests. In addition, a linear relationship between NH4-N production in the BMP and BAP tests was observed. Despite the linear nature of the relationships, the ratio of the production of methane in the BMP tests to the production of VFAs in the BAP tests varied with the biodegradability of the sludge samples. Waste Activated Sludge samples with low digestibility had ultimate yields of CH4 that were greater than the VFA yields in BAP tests, whereas sludge samples with high digestibility had lower yields of CH4 than the corresponding VFA yields. This trend contrasted with the NH4 results, in which the yields in the BAP tests were consistently less than those observed in the BMP tests. It was hypothesized that the varying relationship between CH4 and VFA yields was because of the inhibition of anaerobic oxidation of long-chain fatty acids (LCFAs) in the BAP tests. Long-chain fatty acids would be converted to CH4 in BMP tests but produced as digestion intermediates in the BAP tests and were not measured as part of the VFA yield. Hydrogen and acetate were identified as the two most likely intermediates that would accumulate in the BAP tests (which would cause inhibition). A stoichiometric model to facilitate the development of an improved understanding of the biodegradation processes in the BAP and BMP tests was assembled. When the model was applied to the BAP tests the anaerobic oxidation of LCFAs and propionate and methanogenesis were excluded from the model. The model was employed to estimate the extent of degradation of lipids, carbohydrates, and proteins in the batch tests as a function of the ultimate biodegradability of the sludge samples. On the basis of model fitting, it was determined that the degradation of lipids in BMP tests decreased, whereas the degradation of carbohydrates and proteins increased as the digestibility of the sludge samples increased. The varying ratio of lipid to protein and carbohydrate degradability with increasing digestibility of the sludge samples describes the relationship between VFA production and CH4 production in the BAP, and BMP tests, respectively.

Towards a generalized physicochemical framework.Process models used for activated sludge, anaerobic digestion and in general wastewater treatment plant process design and optimization have traditionally focused on important biokinetic conversions. There is a growing realization that abiotic processes occurring in the wastewater (i.e. 'solvent') have a fundamental effect on plant performance. These processes include weak acid-base reactions (ionization), spontaneous or chemical dose-induced precipitate formation and chemical redox conversions, which influence pH, gas transfer, and directly or indirectly the biokinetic processes themselves. There is a large amount of fundamental information available (from chemical and other disciplines), which, due to its complexity and its diverse sources (originating from many different water and process environments), cannot be readily used in wastewater process design as yet. This position paper outlines the need, the methods, available knowledge and the fundamental approaches that would help to focus the effort of research groups to develop a physicochemical framework specifically in support of whole-plant process modeling. The findings are that, in general, existing models such as produced by the International Water Association for biological processes are limited by omission of key corrections such as non-ideal acid-base behavior, as well as major processes (e.g., ion precipitation). While the underlying chemistry is well understood, its applicability to wastewater applications is less well known. This justifies important further research, with both experimental and model development activities to clarify an approach to modeling of physicochemical processes.

State estimation for anaerobic digesters using the ADM1.The optimization of full-scale biogas plant operation is of great importance to make biomass a competitive source of renewable energy. The implementation of innovative control and optimization algorithms, such as Nonlinear Model Predictive Control, requires an online estimation of operating states of biogas plants. This state estimation allows for optimal control and operating decisions according to the actual state of a plant. In this paper such a state estimator is developed using a calibrated simulation model of a full-scale biogas plant, which is based on the Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1. The use of advanced pattern recognition methods shows that model states can be predicted from basic online measurements such as biogas production, CH4 and CO2 content in the biogas, pH value and substrate feed volume of known substrates. The machine learning methods used are trained and evaluated using synthetic data created with the biogas plant model simulating over a wide range of possible plant operating regions. Results show that the operating state vector of the modelled anaerobic digestion process can be predicted with an overall accuracy of about 90%. This facilitates the application of state-based optimization and control algorithms on full-scale biogas plants and therefore fosters the production of eco-friendly energy from biomass.

Influence of the food to microorganisms (F/M) ratio and temperature on batch anaerobic digestion processes with and without zeolite addition.The main objective of this work was to evaluate the influence of the food to microorganisms (F/M) ratio and temperature on batch anaerobic digestion processes carried out with and without zeolite addition as a microbial carrier. Three laboratory-scale experimental runs were conducted using a synthetic substrate with a COD:N:P ratio of 500:5:1. The first run (I) was conducted at a constant temperature of 27°C, increasing the F/M ratio from 0.21 to 0.40 (g COD/g VSS). During the second run (II) the temperature and the F/M ratio increased from 27°C to 37°C and from 0.21 to 0.40, respectively. Finally, in the third experimental run (III) the F/M ratio achieved high values (1.92 and 1.30) either by varying the substrate concentration at a constant biomass concentration or by increasing the biomass concentration at a constant substrate concentration. Higher biomass growth rate, COD removal and methane production were found in the reactors with zeolite, especially at the highest F/M assayed during the first run. The highest ammonium removals were also achieved at the highest F/M ratio (0.40) in the reactors with zeolite. Within the range studied (25°C-37°C) in the reactors with zeolite operating at 37°C, the second run demonstrated the low influence of temperature on substrate consumption and ammonia removal, with 93% and 70% of COD and ammonia removal efficiencies, respectively. The third run corroborated the results previously obtained and fit the experimental results to simple kinetic models, the Monod model being the most adequate for predicting the behavior of the systems studied. The maximum specific microorganism growth rate (μ(max)) values for the reactors with zeolite were almost twice as high as those obtained for the reactors without zeolite for similar F/M ratios.

Liquid-gas partitioning of selected volatile organic sulfur compounds in anaerobically digested sludges.The gas phase partitioning of volatile organic sulfur compounds (VOSCs) in anaerobic sludge digesters contributes to odors and can impact upon the suitability of biogases for use in alternative energy recovery technologies. In the present study, effective Henry's law coefficients (H') were estimated for methyl mercaptan (MM), dimethyl sulfide (DMS), and dimethyl disulfide (DMDS) in both deionized water and deactivated digested sludge. It was found that the complex matrix of digested sludge did not significantly affect the partitioning of VOSCs. Therefore, partitioning of VOSCs in digesters could be represented by their partitioning in clean water. A regression model was developed for the linear relationship between ln H' and 1/T in the gas-water system. The H' values of MM, DMS, and DMDS were able to be calculated over a temperature range of 12-58 °C.

Application of the general model 'biological nutrient removal model no. 1' to upgrade two full-scale WWTPs.In this paper, two practical case studies for upgrading two wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) using the general model BNRM 1 (Biological Nutrient Removal Model No. 1) are presented. In the first case study, the Tarragona WWTP was upgraded by reducing the phosphorus load to the anaerobic digester in order to minimize the precipitation problems. Phosphorus load reduction was accomplished by mixing the primary sludge and the secondary sludge and by elutriating the mixed sludge. In the second case study, the Alcantarilla WWTP, the nutrient removal was enhanced by maintaining a relatively low dissolved oxygen concentration in Stage A to maintain the acidogenic bacteria activity. The VFA produced in Stage A favour the denitrification process and biological phosphorus removal in Stage B. These case studies demonstrate the benefits of using the general model BNRMI to simulate settling processes and biological processes related to both anaerobic and aerobic bacteria in the same process unit.

Evaluation of anaerobic biodegradability of forage rice straw fertilized with livestock waste.Fertilizing livestock waste for forage rice production can remove nitrogen and reduce the need for chemical fertilizers. Furthermore, rice straw can be used for biogas production. Here, the growth characteristics of different forage rice varieties in Japanese paddy fields fertilized with liquid cattle waste were investigated. Six experimental plots were established in a paddy field planted with three varieties of forage rice developed for livestock feed. Methane production potential assays were then conducted to investigate the anaerobic digestion characteristics of the stems and leaves of these three varieties. The total methane production potential of the Leafstar variety was higher than that of other varieties, while its lag phase was significantly shorter. Co-digestion of ethanol fermentation residue with Leafstar straw revealed that the NH(4)(+)-N concentration decreased as the C/N ratio increased. Additionally, the methane production potential of the mixed substrate was higher than that of ethanol fermentation residue or forage rice straw applied alone. Hence, Leafstar forage rice is a promising variety for establishment of agricultural resource recycling systems in which higher straw biomass can be achieved by applying liquid cattle waste and more biogas can be produced due to the potential for increased methane production.

Phage-mediated acquisition of a type III secreted effector protein boosts growth of salmonella by nitrate respiration.Information on how emerging pathogens can invade and persist and spread within host populations remains sparse. In the 1980s, a multidrug-resistant Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium clone lysogenized by a bacteriophage carrying the sopE virulence gene caused an epidemic among cattle and humans in Europe. Here we show that phage-mediated horizontal transfer of the sopE gene enhances the production of host-derived nitrate, an energetically highly valuable electron acceptor, in a mouse colitis model. In turn, nitrate fuels a bloom of S. Typhimurium in the gut lumen through anaerobic nitrate respiration while suppressing genes for the utilization of energetically inferior electron acceptors such as tetrathionate. Through this mechanism, horizontal transfer of sopE can enhance the fitness of S. Typhimurium, resulting in its significantly increased abundance in the feces. IMPORTANCE During gastroenteritis, Salmonella enterica serotype Typhimurium can use tetrathionate respiration to edge out competing microbes in the gut lumen. However, the concept that tetrathionate respiration confers a growth benefit in the inflamed gut is not broadly applicable to other host-pathogen combinations because tetrathionate respiration is a signature trait used to differentiate Salmonella serotypes from most other members of the family Enterobacteriaceae. Here we show that by acquiring the phage-carried sopE gene, S. Typhimurium can drive the host to generate an additional respiratory electron acceptor, nitrate. Nitrate suppresses genes for the utilization of energetically inferior electron acceptors such as tetrathionate while enhancing the luminal growth of S. Typhimurium through anaerobic nitrate respiration. Pathways for anaerobic nitrate respiration are widely conserved among members of the family Enterobacteriaceae, thereby making our observations relevant to other enteric pathogens whose relative abundance in the intestinal lumen increases during infection.

Development of a comprehensive plan for utilization of digester gas moves towards energy self-sufficiency in Chicago, USA.The Metropolitan Water Reclamation District (MWRD) of Greater Chicago's Stickney Water Reclamation Plant (SWRP) anaerobically digests approximately 430 dry tons per day (dtpd) (390 dry metric tons per day) of solids and produces 3.4 million ft(3)/day (96 thousand m(3)/day) of biogas from the anaerobic digesters, making it one of the largest municipal digester gas complexes in the world. Installation of new treatment processes, as well as future increases in flows and loads to the plant, are expected to significantly increase production of biologically degradable sludge and biogas. This paper presents a comprehensive planning study that was completed to identify and evaluate alternatives for utilization of this biogas. The best, sustainable approach was identified, taking into consideration economics, social impacts, and environmental impacts. The model results indicate that the most economically favorable scenario involves installing a cogeneration facility to produce electricity on-site, and operating it in conjunction with the plant's existing boilers to satisfy the heating needs of the plant. This scenario also provides the greatest reduction in GHG offsets at the power plants.

A waste characterisation procedure for ADM1 implementation based on degradation kinetics.In this study, a procedure accounting for degradation kinetics was developed to split the total COD of a substrate into each input state variable required for Anaerobic Digestion Model n°1. The procedure is based on the combination of batch experimental degradation tests ("anaerobic respirometry") and numerical interpretation of the results obtained (optimisation of the ADM1 input state variable set). The effects of the main operating parameters, such as the substrate to inoculum ratio in batch experiments and the origin of the inoculum, were investigated. Combined with biochemical fractionation of the total COD of substrates, this method enabled determination of an ADM1-consistent input state variable set for each substrate with affordable identifiability. The substrate to inoculum ratio in the batch experiments and the origin of the inoculum influenced input state variables. However, based on results modelled for a CSTR fed with the substrate concerned, these effects were not significant. Indeed, if the optimal ranges of these operational parameters are respected, uncertainty in COD fractionation is mainly limited to temporal variability of the properties of the substrates. As the method is based on kinetics and is easy to implement for a wide range of substrates, it is a very promising way to numerically predict the effect of design parameters on the efficiency of an anaerobic CSTR. This method thus promotes the use of modelling for the design and optimisation of anaerobic processes.

Identification in an anaerobic batch system: global sensitivity analysis, multi-start strategy and optimization criterion selection.Several mathematical models have been developed in anaerobic digestion systems and a variety of methods have been used for parameter estimation and model validation. However, structural and parametric identifiability questions are relatively seldom addressed in the reported AD modeling studies. This paper presents a 3-step procedure for the reliable estimation of a set of kinetic and stoichiometric parameters in a simplified model of the anaerobic digestion process. This procedure includes the application of global sensitivity analysis, which allows to evaluate the interaction among the identified parameters, multi-start strategy that gives a picture of the possible local minima and the selection of optimization criteria or cost functions. This procedure is applied to the experimental data collected from a lab-scale sequencing batch reactor. Two kinetic parameters and two stoichiometric coefficients are estimated and their accuracy was also determined. The classical least-squares cost function appears to be the best choice in this case study.

Batch anaerobic co-digestion of proteins and carbohydrates.Batch anaerobic studies were conducted using five mixtures (M1-M5) of bovine serum albumin (BSA) and starch. The results showed that co-digestion of BSA and starch had a positive impact on the methane production. The highest methane production of 288 mL, the highest methane yield of 360 mL CH(4)/g COD(added), and the highest maximum methane production rate of 62 mL CH(4)/d were achieved for M4 (20% BSA and 80% starch). Most of the particulate proteins (90%) as well as particulate carbohydrates (95%) were degraded in the first 3 days. The hydrolysis coefficients of particulate proteins and particulate carbohydrates ranged from 0.65 to 1.01 d(-1) and from 0.53 to 1.06 d(-1), respectively. The highest methane production was achieved at C:N ratio of 12.8 for M4. For BSA only, propionic acid was the main volatile fatty acid (VFA), while for the starch only, butyric acid was the predominant VFA.

Comparison of different modeling approaches to better evaluate greenhouse gas emissions from whole wastewater treatment plants.New tools are being developed to estimate greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs). There is a trend to move from empirical factors to simple comprehensive and more complex process-based models. Thus, the main objective of this study is to demonstrate the importance of using process-based dynamic models to better evaluate GHG emissions. This is tackled by defining a virtual case study based on the whole plant Benchmark Simulation Model Platform No. 2 (BSM2) and estimating GHG emissions using two approaches: (1) a combination of simple comprehensive models based on empirical assumptions and (2) a more sophisticated approach, which describes the mechanistic production of nitrous oxide (N(2) O) in the biological reactor (ASMN) and the generation of carbon dioxide (CO(2) ) and methane (CH(4) ) from the Anaerobic Digestion Model 1 (ADM1). Models already presented in literature are used, but modifications compared to the previously published ASMN model have been made. Also model interfaces between the ASMN and the ADM1 models have been developed. The results show that the use of the different approaches leads to significant differences in the N(2) O emissions (a factor of 3) but not in the CH(4) emissions (about 4%). Estimations of GHG emissions are also compared for steady-state and dynamic simulations. Averaged values for GHG emissions obtained with steady-state and dynamic simulations are rather similar. However, when looking at the dynamics of N(2) O emissions, large variability (3-6 ton CO(2) e day(-1) ) is observed due to changes in the influent wastewater C/N ratio and temperature which would not be captured by a steady-state analysis (4.4 ton CO(2) e day(-1) ). Finally, this study also shows the effect of changing the anaerobic digestion volume on the total GHG emissions. Decreasing the anaerobic digester volume resulted in a slight reduction in CH(4) emissions (about 5%), but significantly decreased N(2) O emissions in the water line (by 14%).

Integration of mixing, heat transfer, and biochemical reaction kinetics in anaerobic methane fermentation.An extensive investigation of anaerobic methane fermentation requires identifying the relationship between the physical environment and biological process. In this study, a computational fluid dynamics (CFD) technique was used to characterize bacterial fermentation mechanisms intertwined with mixing and heat transfer in anaerobic digesters. The results demonstrate that the methane yield remains almost unchanged while the energy efficiency decreases with increasing mixing power in a complete-mix digester, and that the energy output increases nonlinearly with the increase in heating energy in a plug-flow digester. The CFD method can be applied to other bioreactors to gain valuable insights into their behavior as well. Integrating flow and temperature with kinetic behavior for anaerobic digestion not only solves the controversy about how mixing influences the digestive process, but also assists in optimizing the digester design and increasing the efficiency of energy conversion, and additionally, provides a reference for improving the mixing guidelines recommended by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.

N2O production rate of an enriched ammonia-oxidising bacteria culture exponentially correlates to its ammonia oxidation rate.The relationship between the ammonia oxidation rate (AOR) and nitrous oxide production rate (N(2)OR) of an enriched ammonia-oxidising bacteria (AOB) culture was investigated. The AOB culture was enriched in a nitritation system fed with synthetic anaerobic digester liquor. The AOR was controlled by adjusting the dissolved oxygen (DO) and pH levels and also by varying the initial ammonium (NH(4)(+)) concentration in batch experiments. Tests were also performed directly on the parent reactor where a stepwise decrease/increase in DO was implemented to alter AOR. The experimental data indicated a clear exponential relationship between the biomass specific N(2)OR and AOR. Four metabolic models were used to analyse the experimental data. The metabolic model formulated based on aerobic N(2)O production from the decomposition of nitrosyl radical (NOH) predicted the exponential correlation observed experimentally. The experimental data could not be reproduced by models developed on the basis of N(2)O production through nitrite (NO(2)(-)) and nitric oxide (NO) reduction by AOB.

Modeling of simultaneous denitrification--anaerobic digestion--organic matter aerobic oxidation and nitrification in an anoxic-anaerobic-aerobic compact filter reactor.A mathematical model was developed for a compact anoxic-anaerobic-aerobic filter reactor with liquid recirculation for the treatment of fishing effluents. The model includes denitrification, anaerobic digestion, aerobic carbon oxidation and nitrification steps, as well as an evaluation of the liquid gas mass transfer and pH. The model was calibrated using one experimental condition at a recycling ratio (R)=10, and was validated with R equal to 2 and 0, with an organic concentration of 554±24 mg TOCL(-1), salinity of 24 g L(-1) and hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 2 d. Carbon total removal is higher than 98%, while maximum nitrogen removal is 62% using total nitrification in the aerobic zone, due to a higher quantity of NO(x) produced which were recirculated to the anoxic zone. In the aerobic zone, simultaneous nitrification and denitrification processes occur, because the diffusion limitations cause a low oxygen penetration in the biofilm. In the anoxic-anaerobic zone, denitrification or methanogenesis inhibition by DO (caused by the recycled oxygen) is not observed.

High-throughput sequence-based analysis of the intestinal microbiota of weanling pigs fed genetically modified MON810 maize expressing Bacillus thuringiensis Cry1Ab (Bt maize) for 31 days.The objective of this study was to investigate if feeding genetically modified (GM) MON810 maize expressing the Bacillus thuringiensis insecticidal protein (Bt maize) had any effects on the porcine intestinal microbiota. Eighteen pigs were weaned at ~28 days and, following a 6-day acclimatization period, were assigned to diets containing either GM (Bt MON810) maize or non-GM isogenic parent line maize for 31 days (n = 9/treatment). Effects on the porcine intestinal microbiota were assessed through culture-dependent and -independent approaches. Fecal, cecal, and ileal counts of total anaerobes, Enterobacteriaceae, and Lactobacillus were not significantly different between pigs fed the isogenic or Bt maize-based diets. Furthermore, high-throughput 16S rRNA gene sequencing revealed few differences in the compositions of the cecal microbiotas. The only differences were that pigs fed the Bt maize diet had higher cecal abundance of Enterococcaceae (0.06 versus 0%; P < 0.05), Erysipelotrichaceae (1.28 versus 1.17%; P < 0.05), and Bifidobacterium (0.04 versus 0%; P < 0.05) and lower abundance of Blautia (0.23 versus 0.40%; P < 0.05) than pigs fed the isogenic maize diet. A lower enzyme-resistant starch content in the Bt maize, which is most likely a result of normal variation and not due to the genetic modification, may account for some of the differences observed within the cecal microbiotas. These results indicate that Bt maize is well tolerated by the porcine intestinal microbiota and provide additional data for safety assessment of Bt maize. Furthermore, these data can potentially be extrapolated to humans, considering the suitability of pigs as a human model.

Dietary intervention with green dwarf banana flour (Musa sp AAA) prevents intestinal inflammation in a trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid model of rat colitis.Dietary products are among the therapeutic approaches used to modify intestinal microflora and to promote protective effects during the intestinal inflammatory process. Because the banana plant is rich in resistant starch, which is used by colonic microbiota for the anaerobic production of the short-chain fatty acids that serve as a major fuel source for colonocytes: first, green dwarf banana flour produces protective effects on the intestinal inflammation acting as a prebiotic and, second, combination of this dietary supplementation with prednisolone presents synergistic effects. For this, we used the trinitrobenzenesulphonic acid (TNBS) model of rat colitis. Our results revealed that the protective effect produced by a combination of 10% green dwarf banana flour with prednisolone was more pronounced than those promoted by a single administration of prednisolone or a diet containing 10% or 20% banana flour. This beneficial effect was associated with an improvement in the colonic oxidative status because the banana flour diet prevented the glutathione depletion and inhibited myeloperoxidase activity and lipid peroxidation. In addition, the intestinal anti-inflammatory activity was associated with an inhibition of alkaline phosphatase activity, a reduction in macroscopic and microscopic scores, and an extension of the lesions. In conclusion, the dietary use of the green dwarf banana flour constitutes an important dietary supplement and complementary medicine product to prevention and treatment of human inflammatory bowel disease.

[Methane production by anaerobic co-digestion of chicken manure and Spartina alterniflora residue after producing methane].The characteristics of Spartina alterniflora residue after producing methane (SAR) digested alone and co-digestion of various proportions of chicken manure and SAR were investigated by batch model at 35 degrees C +/- 1 degrees C. The initial total solid (TS) loading of all treatments was 8.0%. The results indicated that there was still some biogas produced by SAR with TS biogas yield of 107.25 mL x g(-1) and average methane content of 76.92%. The cellulose crystallinity of re-digested SAR was destructed by anaerobic microorganisms, and the destruction rate was 5.55%. Co-digestion meliorated the environment where microorganisms lived in and increased the cumulative biogas yield. When the ratio of chicken manure to SAR was 4 : 1, the cumulative biogas yield was highest while the cumulative biogas yield of T1 (the rate of chicken manure to SAR is 5 : 0 based on TS), T3-T6 (the rate of chicken manure to SAR are 3 : 2, 2 : 3, 1 :4 and 0 : 5 based on TS, respectively) were 61.31%, 62.09%, 52.15%, 39.74% and 31.67% of it. The anaerobic fermentation type of co-digestion is mix acid type fermentation. Co-digested with chicken manure promoted the destruction of cellulous crystallinity by 1.13% - 21.61% and especially when the rate of chicken manure to SAR was 4 : 1.

Streptococcus troglodytae sp. nov., from the chimpanzee oral cavity.Six strains, TKU 25, TKU 28, TKU 30, TKU 31(T), TKU 33 and TKU 34, were isolated from the oral cavity of a chimpanzee (Pan troglodytes). Colonies of strains grown on Mitis-Salivarius agar were similar in morphology to that of Streptococcus mutans. The novel strains were Gram-stain-positive, facultatively anaerobic cocci that lacked catalase activity. Analysis of the partial 16S rRNA gene sequences of these isolates showed that the most closely related strain was the type strain of S. mutans (96.4 %). The next closely related strains to the isolates were the type strains of Streptococcus devriesei (94.5 %) and Streptococcus downei (93.9 %). These isolates could be distinguished from S. mutans by inulin fermentation and alkaline phosphatase activity (API ZYM system). The peptidoglycan type of the novel isolates was Glu-Lys-Ala(3). Strains were not susceptible to bacitracin. On the basis of phenotypic characterization, partial 16S rRNA gene and two housekeeping gene (groEL and sodA) sequence data, we propose a novel taxon, Streptococcus troglodytae sp. nov.; the type strain is TKU 31(T) ( = JCM 18038(T) = DSM 25324(T)).

NIR monitoring of ammonia in anaerobic digesters using a diffuse reflectance probe.The feasibility of using a diffuse reflectance probe attached to a near infrared spectrometer to monitor the total ammonia nitrogen (TAN) content in an anaerobic digester run on cattle manure was investigated; as a previous study has indicated that this probe can be easily attached to an anaerobic digester. Multivariate modelling techniques such as partial least squares regression and interval partial least squares methods were used to build models. Various data pre-treatments were applied to improve the models. The TAN concentrations measured were in the range of 1.5 to 5.5 g/L. An R(2) of 0.91 with an RMSEP of 0.32 was obtained implying that the probe could be used for monitoring and screening purposes.

Online estimation of VFA, alkalinity and bicarbonate concentrations by electrical conductivity measurement during anaerobic fermentation.This paper describes the use of electrical conductivity for measurement of volatile fatty acids (VFA), alkalinity and bicarbonate concentrations, during the anaerobic fermentation process. Two anaerobic continuous processes were studied: the first was a laboratory reactor for hydrogen production from molasses and the second was a pilot process for anaerobic digestion (AD) of vinasses producing methane. In the hydrogen production process, the total VFA concentration, but not bicarbonate concentration, was well estimated from the on-line electrical conductivity measurements with a simple linear regression model. In the methane production process, the bicarbonate concentration and the VFA concentration were well estimated from the simultaneous on-line measurements of pH and electrical conductivity by means of non-linear regression with neural network models. Moreover, the total alkalinity concentration was well estimated from electrical conductivity measurements with a simple linear regression model. This demonstrates the use of electrical conductivity for monitoring the AD processes.

CFD simulation of mixing for high-solids anaerobic digestion.A computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model that simulates mechanical mixing for high-solids anaerobic digestion was developed. Numerical simulations of mixing manure slurry which exhibits non-Newtonian pseudo-plastic fluid behavior were performed for six designs: (i) one helical ribbon impeller; (ii) one anchor impeller; (iii) one curtain-type impeller; (iv) three counterflow (CF-2) impellers; (v) two modified high solidity (MHS 3/39°) impellers; and (vi) two pitched blade turbine impellers. The CFD model was validated against measurements for mixing a Herschel-Bulkley fluid by ribbon and anchor impellers. Based on mixing time with respect to mixing energy level, three impeller types (ribbon, CF-2, and MHS 3/39°) stand out when agitating highly viscous fluids, of these mixing with two MHS 3/39° impellers requires the lowest power input to homogenize the manure slurry. A comparison of digestion material demonstrates that the mixing energy varies with manure type and total solids concentration to obtain a given mixing time. Moreover, an in-depth discussion about the CFD strategy, the influences of flow regime and impeller type on mixing characteristics, and the intrinsic relation between mixing and flow field is included.

Total solids content drives high solid anaerobic digestion via mass transfer limitation.The role of the total solids (TS) content on anaerobic digestion was investigated in batch reactors. A range of TS contents from 10% to 35% was evaluated, four replicates were performed. The total methane production slightly decreased with TS concentrations increasing from 10% to 25% TS. Two behaviors were observed at 30% TS: two replicates had similar performances to that at 25% TS; for the two other replicates, the methane production was inhibited as observed at 35% TS. This difference suggested that 30% TS content corresponded to a threshold of the solids content, above which methanogenesis was strongly inhibited. The Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) was used to describe the experimental data. The effects of hydrolysis step and liquid/gas mass transfer were particularly investigated. The simulations showed that mass transfer limitation could explain the low methane production at high TS, and that hydrolysis rate constants slightly decreased with increasing TS.

Methane potential and biodegradability of rice straw, rice husk and rice residues from the drying process.Agricultural solid residues are a potential renewable energy source. Rice harvesting and production in Sancti Spíritus province, Cuba, currently generates residues without an environmentally sustainable disposal route. Rice residues (rice straw, rice husk and rice residues from the drying process) are potentially an important carbon source for anaerobic digestion. For this paper, rice residues were placed for 36 days retention time in anaerobic batch reactor environments at both mesophilic (37 °C) and thermophilic (55 °C) conditions. Biogas and methane yield were determined as well as biogas composition. The results showed that rice straw as well as rice residues from the drying process had the highest biogas and methane yield. Temperature played an important role in determining both biogas yield and kinetics. In all cases, rice straw produced the highest yields; under mesophilic conditions the biogas yield was 0.43 m(3) kg(VS)(-1), under thermophilic conditions biogas yield reached 0.52 m(3) kg(VS)(-1). In the case of the rice husk, the biodegradability was very low. Methane content in all batches was kept above 55% vol. All digested material had a high carbon:nitrogen (C:N) ratio, even though significant biodegradation was recorded with the exception of rice husk. A first-order model can be used to describe the rice crop residues fermentation effectively.

Modelling of ionic interactions with wastewater treatment biomass.Titration data for samples of mixed salts with glycine, baker's yeast cell mass and anaerobic digester sludge were obtained and compared to a speciation model of weak acid-base interaction in aqueous solutions. The effect of glycine on the buffer intensity of the solution could be precisely described by the speciation model but did not represent the proton exchange characteristics of either baker's yeast or anaerobic sludge well. A model component, UKZiNe, consisting of carboxylic acids, phosphate and amine groups described the baker's yeast well, and a combination of UKZiNe and carbonate-yielding inorganic solids described anaerobic digester sludge. The effect of biomass on buffer intensity in the pH range 6.5 to 8 was small for the concentration ranges tested.

An economic, sustainability, and energetic model of biodiesel production from microalgae.A new process evaluation methodology of microalgae biodiesel has been developed. Based on four evaluation criteria, i.e. the net energy ratio (NER), biodiesel production costs, greenhouse gases (GHG) emission rate and water footprint, the model compares various technologies for each step of the process, from cultivation to oil upgrading. An innovative pathway (hybrid raceway/PBR cultivation system, belt filter press for dewatering, wet lipid extraction, oil hydrotreating and anaerobic digestion of residues) shows good results in comparison to a reference pathway (doubled NER, lower GHG emission rate and water footprint). The production costs are still unfavourable (between 1.94 and 3.35 €/L of biodiesel). The most influential parameters have been targeted through a global sensitivity analysis and classified: (i) lipid productivity, (ii) the cultivation step, and (iii) the downstream processes. The use of low-carbon energy sources is required to achieve significant reductions of the biodiesel GHG emission rate compared to petroleum diesel.

[Comparative characteristics of glucose metabolism in the liver of rats under acute alcohol and morphine intoxication].The comparative analysis effect of acute alcohol and morphine intoxications on rats on hepatic glycolysis and pentose phosphate pathway was done. The dose-dependent inhibitory effect of ethanol on activity of limiting enzymes of these metabolic ways, as well as anaerobic reorientation of glucose metabolism was recognised with the increase of the dose of the intake alcohol. Morfine (10 mg/kg) activated enymes of glycolysis and pentose phosphate pathway, but in contrast to ethanol it did not influence these parameters at the dose 20 or 40 mg/kg.

Use of modeling to aid design of a two-phase grass digestion system.A sequentially fed leach bed system coupled with a leachate holding tank and an Upflow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket (UASB) was modeled based on 310d of grass silage digestion with the goal of generating specific design instruction. The model suggests the hydrolysis rate is proportional to the sprinkling rate and retention time. It suggests that raising the sprinkling rate by a third (from 600L/d to 800L/d) increases the volatile solids destruction from 70% to 80% for a retention time of 30d yielding 370L CH(4)/kg VS. The volume of the leachate holding tank has a minimal influence on methane production (reducing its volume by a factor of 2 reduces methane yield by 1%). The model suggests that for a constant sprinkling rate, shorter retention time increases daily methane production, but lowers specific methane yield (L CH(4)/kg VS). Longer retention time increases methane content in the biogas.

Synthesis of nano-zeolite from coal fly ash and its potential for nutrient sequestration from anaerobically digested swine wastewater.The treatment of anaerobically digested swine wastewater (ADSW) is problematic due to its high nutrient concentration. This study investigated the simultaneous sequestration of ammonium (N) and phosphate (P) from ADSW using nano-zeolites synthesized from fly ash (ZFA). The nanometer-scale crystalline structures plentiful of zeolite-NaP1 coating on ZFA particle increased the levels of specific surface area and cation exchange capacity at times of 40 and 104, compared to raw fly ash. Kinetic N and P sorption experiments with ZFA were well described by both the Langmuir and Freundlich models, suggesting the co-existence of homogeneous and heterogeneous sorption mechanisms. N and P removal efficiencies ranged from 41% to 95% and 75% to 98%, respectively, across a range of ZFA doses (from 0.25 to 8g/100ml). Collectively, application of the laboratory-synthesized ZFA can alleviate the nutrient loads in ADSW and therefore modify the ratio of N:P in wastewater beneficial for subsequent biological treatment.

Removal of heavy metals from aqueous solution by biochars derived from anaerobically digested biomass.This study examined the ability of two biochars converted from anaerobically digested biomass to sorb heavy metals using a range of laboratory sorption and characterization experiments. Initial evaluation of DAWC (digested dairy waste biochar) and DWSBC (digested whole sugar beet biochar) showed that both biochars were effective in removing a mixture of four heavy metals (Pb(2 +), Cu(2+), Ni(2+), and Cd(2+)) from aqueous solutions. Compared to DAWC, DWSBC demonstrated a better ability to remove Ni and Cd. Further investigations of lead sorption by the two biochars indicated that the removal was mainly through a surface precipitation mechanism, which was confirmed by batch sorption experiments, mathematical modeling, and examinations of lead-laden biochars samples using SEM-EDS, XRD, and FTIR. The lead sorption capacity of the two biochars was close to or higher than 200mmol/kg, which is comparable to that of commercial activated carbons.

Use of an algal hydrolysate to improve enzymatic hydrolysis of lignocellulose.This study investigated the use of acid hydrolyzed algae to enhance the enzymatic hydrolysis of lignocellulosic biomass. The farm-waste grown algal samples were first characterized, and the optimal conditions for algal hydrolysis using dilute sulfuric acid were determined. Neutralized algal hydrolysate was then tested as a reaction medium (replacing the pH buffer solution) for the enzymatic hydrolysis of a lignocellulose, alkali treated anaerobically-digested fiber. Our results showed that net glucose yields from enzymatic hydrolyses containing undiluted algal hydrolysate were at least 65% higher than net glucose yields from control media (bovine serum albumin solution, citrate buffer or distilled water). It is likely that the increase in net glucose yield is due, in part, to the binding of hydrolyzed algal proteins to lignin, which protects cellulase from binding to lignin. This study demonstrates a potential approach of using wastewater-grown algae as a co-substrate to significantly enhance the enzymatic hydrolysis of lignocellulosic materials.

Oral microbial biofilm stimulation of epithelial cell responses.Oral bacterial biofilms trigger chronic inflammatory responses in the host that can result in the tissue destructive events of periodontitis. However, the characteristics of the capacity of specific host cell types to respond to these biofilms remain ill-defined. This report describes the use of a novel model of bacterial biofilms to stimulate oral epithelial cells and profile select cytokines and chemokines that contribute to the local inflammatory environment in the periodontium. Monoinfection biofilms were developed with Streptococcus sanguinis, Streptococcus oralis, Streptococcus gordonii, Actinomyces naeslundii, Fusobacterium nucleatum, and Porphyromonas gingivalis on rigid gas-permeable contact lenses. Biofilms, as well as planktonic cultures of these same bacterial species, were incubated under anaerobic conditions with a human oral epithelial cell line, OKF4, for up to 24h. Gro-1α, IL1α, IL-6, IL-8, TGFα, Fractalkine, MIP-1α, and IP-10 were shown to be produced in response to a range of the planktonic or biofilm forms of these species. P. gingivalis biofilms significantly inhibited the production of all of these cytokines and chemokines, except MIP-1α. Generally, the biofilms of all species inhibited Gro-1α, TGFα, and Fractalkine production, while F. nucleatum biofilms stimulated significant increases in IL-1α, IL-6, IL-8, and IP-10. A. naeslundii biofilms induced elevated levels of IL-6, IL-8 and IP-10. The oral streptococcal species in biofilms or planktonic forms were poor stimulants for any of these mediators from the epithelial cells. The results of these studies demonstrate that oral bacteria in biofilms elicit a substantially different profile of responses compared to planktonic bacteria of the same species. Moreover, certain oral species are highly stimulatory when in biofilms and interact with host cell receptors to trigger pathways of responses that appear quite divergent from individual bacteria.

Two-phase anaerobic digestion of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste: estimation of methane production.Energy generation from methane (CH(4)) is one of the primary targets of the anaerobic digestion process. Consequently, the focus of this study was to investigate the effect on CH(4) production of total solids (TS) loading (measured as % TS) and hydraulic residence time (HRT) during the treatment of the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW). Laboratory-scale, two-phase anaerobic digestion systems were employed with each system consisting of an acidogenic reactor and a methanogenic reactor linked in series. The group A runs in the experiment explored the effect on digester performance of four variations in methanogenic HRT (15, 20, 25 and 30 days) at three different feed TS concentrations (8, 12 and 15%). The group B runs compared the actual methane yield (0.14 to 0.45 L g VSfeed−1)) to that predicted by the Chen-Hashimoto model. Results from the group A runs indicated that acidogenesis improved with an increase in % TS and a decrease in HRT; while, methanogenesis behaved inversely, achieving higher yields at the lower % TS and longer HRT values. In comparison with the group B runs, the Chen-Hashimoto model under-predicted (by an average of 16.5 ± 6.6%) the CH(4) yield obtained from the digestion of OFMSW.

Comparison of different conditions, substrates and operation modes by dynamic simulation of a full-scale anaerobic SBR plant.Simulation studies for a full-scale anaerobic unit of a wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) were performed using the anaerobic digestion model no. 1 (ADM1). The anaerobic full-scale plant consists of one mesophilic and one thermophilic digester, operated in an anaerobic sequential batch reactor (ASBR) mode, and sludge enrichment reactors (SER) for each digester. The digesters are fed with a mixture of vegetable waste and process wastewater from the food factory. Characteristics such as COD(total), N(total) and NH(4)-N concentrations in the influent and effluent of the digester and SERs were measured and used for input fractionation. Parameters such as level, pH, biogas amount and composition in the digester were measured online and used for calibration. For simulation studies, different temperatures and operation modes with varying chemical oxygen demand (COD) input loads corresponding to feedstocks such as fruits, vegetables and grain were analysed and compared. Higher gas production and digestion efficiency in the thermophilic reactor and in shorter cycles were found and confirmed at full scale. Serial operation mode increased the gas production, but pH inhibition occurred earlier. Feeding only biosolids into digester I and the effluent of digester I together with process water into digester II further improved gas production in serial operation mode.

Effect of nickel ions on anaerobic methane production from water hyacinth.The effect of different concentrations of nickel ions (Ni(2+), 0, 10, 40 and 80 mg/L) on the anaerobic methane production of water hyacinth were investigated. Under these four concentrations, the methane production in 40 d was 2,275, 2,703, 3,210 and 2,481 mL, respectively. This situation illustrated that the Ni(2+) promoted the growth of hydrogen-producing acetic acid bacteria and methanogenic bacteria, even at high concentrations (i.e. 40-80 mg/L). The highest methane production per unit weight water hyacinth reached 206 mL/gTS with 40 mg/L Ni(2+). Meanwhile, the modified Gompertz and Logistic equations were applied to describe the effect on anaerobic culture of Ni(2+). According to these models, the values of methane production potential (mL) for four concentrations were in the following order: 40 mg/L (3,123.42 ± 60.08) > 10 mg/L (2,541.16 ± 46.94) > 80 mg/L (2,432.36 ± 40.18) > 0 mg/L (2,238.10 ± 31.90). According to the analysis of the digestate, the residual concentration of Ni(2+) was approximately 1.05-4.9 mg/L, which was relatively low compared with the Ni(2+) concentrations in the raw feedstock. The results would provide academic guidance and technical support for treatment of water hyacinth with an accumulation of heavy metals.

An asymptotic observer-based monitoring scheme for a class of plug flow reactors.In this paper a monitoring tool is designed for a class of plug flow reactors whose mathematical model is described by a set of first-order partial differential equations with different coefficients in the convective terms. The infinite dimensional structure of such a tool is derived according to the methodology established in the design of the well-known asymptotic observer. As a consequence, it preserves the robustness of the aforementioned observer against the lack of information of the nonlinear terms involved in the model. The original structure of the estimator is then represented as a couple of integral equations by means of the method of characteristics and its behaviour is analyzed through simulation experiments. These simulations show that the mean square observation error is 0.58 when the proposed observer is implemented in a solid-waste anaerobic digestion process to estimate the evolution of biomass concentration.

Effect of inoculum to substrate ratio on the hydrolysis and acidification of food waste in leach bed reactor.The aim of present study was to determine an appropriate ISR (inoculum to substrate ratio) to enhance the hydrolysis rate and reduce the solid retention time of food waste in hydrolytic-acidogenesis leach bed reactor (LBR). LBR 1-4 were inoculated with 0%, 5%, 20% and 80% (w/w basis) of anaerobically digested sludge, respectively, using artificial food waste as substrate. Experiments were conducted in batch mode at mesophilic condition (35 °C) for 17 days. Higher ISR resulted in 4.3-fold increase in protein hydrolysis; whereas, only a modest increase in the decomposition of carbohydrate. Two kinetic models for carbohydrate and protein degradation were proposed and evaluated. The differences among four ISRs in volatile solids removal efficiencies were marginal, i.e. 52.4%, 62.8%, 63.2% and 71.7% for LBR 1-4, respectively; indicating that higher ISR was insignificant in enhancing the overall hydrolysis rate in LBR. Therefore, a lower ISR of 20% was recommended in the hydrolytic-acidogenic process.

In vitro pharmacokinetic characterization of mulberroside A, the main polyhydroxylated stilbene in mulberry (Morus alba L.), and its bacterial metabolite oxyresveratrol in traditional oral use.Mulberroside A (MulA) is one of the main bioactive constituents in mulberry (Morus alba L.). This study examined the determining factors for previously reported oral pharmacokinetic profiles of MulA and its bacterial metabolite oxyresveratrol (OXY) on in vitro models. When incubated anaerobically with intestinal bacteria, MulA underwent rapid deglycosylation and generated two monoglucosides and its aglycone OXY sequentially. MulA exhibited a poor permeability and predominantly traversed Caco-2 cells via passive diffusion; yet, the permeation of OXY across Caco-2 cells was much more rapid and involved efflux (both p-glycoprotein and MRPs)-mediated mechanisms. Moreover, OXY underwent extensive hepatic glucuronidation; yet, the parent MulA was kept intact in liver subcellular preparations. There was insignificant species difference in intestinal bacterial conversion of MulA and the extent of OXY hepatic glucuronidation between humans and rats, while OXY exhibited a distinct positional preference of glucuronidation in the two species. Overall, these findings revealed a key role of intestinal bacterial conversion in absorption and systemic exposure of MulA and its resultant bacterial metabolite OXY in oral route in humans and rats and warranted further investigational emphasis on OXY and its hepatic metabolites for understanding the benefits of mulberry.

Anaerobic digestion of different organic wastes for biogas production and its operational control performed by the modified ADM1.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of different organic wastes for biogas production under variable operating conditions was simulated with a steady-state implementation of the modified IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1), and an input-output feedback control system using the model as a test platform was developed. The main aim of this study was to compare the characteristics of organic wastes in the AD processes and manage to keep the processes stable based on the results of simulation. The two important operating factors, solid retention time (SRT) and organic loading rate (OLR) (or the ratio of input flows for co-digestion), were investigated. Anaerobic digestion of biowaste was characterized with lower biogas production and instability of the processes, especially at OLR 2.5 kgCOD/m(3)·d or more, although longer SRT could increase the biogas production. Moreover, the co-substrate composed of biowaste and corn silage would lead to instability of the processes and much lower biogas production. Biowaste was, however, preferable to be co-digested with manures of living stock or sewage sludge. Manure could contribute to the stability of the AD processes, and its co-substrates with organic wastes rich in carbohydrates such as biowaste and corn silage would improve the biogas production and the proportion of methane. Longer SRTs would improve the biogas production from manure as well as its co-substrates except the co-substrate with biowaste as the production was not distinctly raised. The test of the developed input-output feedback control system showed that the control system could reject a realistic set of random disturbances and keep the AD processes stable under the desired operational conditions with a minimal use of measurement facilities.

Biogas production potential and kinetics of microwave and conventional thermal pretreatment of grass.Pretreatment methods play an important role in the improvement of biogas production from the anaerobic digestion of energy grass. In this study, conventional thermal and microwave methods were performed on raw material, namely, Pennisetum hybrid, to analyze the effect of pretreatment on anaerobic digestion by the calculation of performance parameters using Logistic function, modified Gompertz equation, and transference function. Results indicated that thermal pretreatment improved the biogas production of Pennisetum hybrid, whereas microwave method had an adverse effect on the performance. All the models fit the experimental data with R (2) > 0.980, and the Reaction Curve presented the best agreement in the fitting process. Conventional thermal pretreatment showed an increasing effect on maximum production rate and total methane produced, with an improvement of around 7% and 8%, respectively. With regard to microwave pretreatment, maximum production rate and total methane produced decreased by 18% and 12%, respectively.

ADM1-based modeling of methane production from acidified sweet sorghum extract in a two stage process.The present study focused on the application of the Anaerobic Digestion Model 1 on the methane production from acidified sorghum extract generated from a hydrogen producing bioreactor in a two-stage anaerobic process. The kinetic parameters for hydrogen and volatile fatty acids consumption were estimated through fitting of the model equations to the data obtained from batch experiments. The simulation of the continuous reactor performance at all HRTs tested (20, 15, and 10d) was very satisfactory. Specifically, the largest deviation of the theoretical predictions against the experimental data was 12% for the methane production rate at the HRT of 20d while the deviation values for the 15 and 10d HRT were 1.9% and 1.1%, respectively. The model predictions regarding pH, methane percentage in the gas phase and COD removal were in very good agreement with the experimental data with a deviation less than 5% for all steady states. Therefore, the ADM1 is a valuable tool for process design in the case of a two-stage anaerobic process as well.

Economic analyses of pig manure treatment options in Ireland.An economic analysis was performed on treatment options for pig manure in Ireland. Costs were based on a 500 sow integrated pig farm producing 10,500 m(3) of manure per year at 4.8% dry matter. The anaerobic digestion of pig manure and grass silage (1:1; volatile solids basis) was unviable under the proposed tariffs, with costs at € 5.2 m(-3) manure. Subsequent solid-liquid separation of the digestate would cost an additional € 12.8 m(-3) manure. The treatment of the separated solid fraction by composting and of the liquid fraction by integrated constructed wetlands, would add € 2.8 and € 4.6 m(-3) manure, respectively to the treatment costs. The cost analysis presented showed that the technologies investigated are currently not cost effective in Ireland. Transport and spreading of raw manure, at € 4.9 m(-3) manure (15 km maximum distance from farm) is the most cost effective option.

A critical review of experimental and predicted methane generation from anaerobic codigestion.Anaerobic digestion is increasingly being considered as a treatment option for an extensive range of waste biomass, due to the potential for energy recovery, in the form of methane production, and lower sludge volumes relative to aerobic treatment processes. Furthermore, when two substrates are codigested (i.e. digested together), added benefits are foreseeable, such as increased methane production and detoxification of toxic compounds via cometabolic degradation pathways. The objectives of this study were to compare experimental and predicted methane production from codigestion literature studies in order to objectively evaluate digester performance. Two predictive methods were used, both assuming methane yields are additive: literature values for digestion of single substrates and a stoichiometric method using model substrates to represent different substrates. Waste sources included in the analysis were primary sewage sludge, waste activated sludge, cow manure, waste paper, grease trap sludge, fat oil and grease and algal sludge. It was found that methane production could approximately be predicted using both methods, with literature methane yields from the same study being the most accurate predictor. One important finding from this study was that the assumption that methane yields are additive is a reasonable one. Furthermore, both predictive methods may be usefully employed as a screening tool to compare methane yields between different types and blends of substrates.

An optimizing start-up strategy for a bio-methanator.This paper presents an optimizing start-up strategy for a bio-methanator. The goal of the control strategy is to maximize the outflow rate of methane in anaerobic digestion processes, which can be described by a two-population model. The methodology relies on a thorough analysis of the system dynamics and involves the solution of two optimization problems: steady-state optimization for determining the optimal operating point and transient optimization. The latter is a classical optimal control problem, which can be solved using the maximum principle of Pontryagin. The proposed control law is of the bang-bang type. The process is driven from an initial state to a small neighborhood of the optimal steady state by switching the manipulated variable (dilution rate) from the minimum to the maximum value at a certain time instant. Then the dilution rate is set to the optimal value and the system settles down in the optimal steady state. This control law ensures the convergence of the system to the optimal steady state and substantially increases its stability region. The region of attraction of the steady state corresponding to maximum production of methane is considerably enlarged. In some cases, which are related to the possibility of selecting the minimum dilution rate below a certain level, the stability region of the optimal steady state equals the interior of the state space. Aside its efficiency, which is evaluated not only in terms of biogas production but also from the perspective of treatment of the organic load, the strategy is also characterized by simplicity, being thus appropriate for implementation in real-life systems. Another important advantage is its generality: this technique may be applied to any anaerobic digestion process, for which the acidogenesis and methanogenesis are, respectively, characterized by Monod and Haldane kinetics.

Predicting concentrations of trace organic compounds in municipal wastewater treatment plant sludge and biosolids using the PhATE™ model.This article presents the capability expansion of the PhATE™ (pharmaceutical assessment and transport evaluation) model to predict concentrations of trace organics in sludges and biosolids from municipal wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs). PhATE was originally developed as an empirical model to estimate potential concentrations of active pharmaceutical ingredients (APIs) in US surface and drinking waters that could result from patient use of medicines. However, many compounds, including pharmaceuticals, are not completely transformed in WWTPs and remain in biosolids that may be applied to land as a soil amendment. This practice leads to concerns about potential exposures of people who may come into contact with amended soils and also about potential effects to plants and animals living in or contacting such soils. The model estimates the mass of API in WWTP influent based on the population served, the API per capita use, and the potential loss of the compound associated with human use (e.g., metabolism). The mass of API on the treated biosolids is then estimated based on partitioning to primary and secondary solids, potential loss due to biodegradation in secondary treatment (e.g., activated sludge), and potential loss during sludge treatment (e.g., aerobic digestion, anaerobic digestion, composting). Simulations using 2 surrogate compounds show that predicted environmental concentrations (PECs) generated by PhATE are in very good agreement with measured concentrations, i.e., well within 1 order of magnitude. Model simulations were then carried out for 18 APIs representing a broad range of chemical and use characteristics. These simulations yielded 4 categories of results: 1) PECs are in good agreement with measured data for 9 compounds with high analytical detection frequencies, 2) PECs are greater than measured data for 3 compounds with high analytical detection frequencies, possibly as a result of as yet unidentified depletion mechanisms, 3) PECs are less than analytical reporting limits for 5 compounds with low analytical detection frequencies, and 4) the PEC is greater than the analytical method reporting limit for 1 compound with a low analytical detection frequency, possibly again as a result of insufficient depletion data. Overall, these results demonstrate that PhATE has the potential to be a very useful tool in the evaluation of APIs in biosolids. Possible applications include: prioritizing APIs for assessment even in the absence of analytical methods; evaluating sludge processing scenarios to explore potential mitigation approaches; using in risk assessments; and developing realistic nationwide concentrations, because PECs can be represented as a cumulative probability distribution. Finally, comparison of PECs to measured concentrations can also be used to identify the need for fate studies of compounds of interest in biosolids.

Modeling volatile organic sulfur compounds in mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic digestion of methionine.Processes involved in volatile organic sulfur compound (VOSC) generation and degradation in mesophilic and thermophilic digestion of methionine were identified, kinetically studied and a mathematical model was established. MM was found to be the only VOSC directly generated from methionine degradation. MM was methylated to form DMS and both MM and DMS were subsequently degraded to H2S. Mixed-second order kinetics were found to best fit the VOSC generation and conversion processes. The kinetic constants (average values) for MM generation and methylation and MM and DMS degradation were estimated to be 0.0032, 0.0047, 0.027, and 0.013 l g(-1) h(-1) respectively at 35 °C and 0.0069, 0.0012, 0.0083, 0.005 l g(-1) h(-1) respectively at 55 °C. More rapid MM release and slower VOSC decline at thermophilic temperature implied that VOSC could be more problematic at thermophilic temperatures as compared to mesophilic conditions.

Dry-thermophilic anaerobic digestion of organic fraction of municipal solid waste: methane production modeling.The influence of particle size and organic matter content of organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) in the overall kinetics of dry (30% total solids) thermophilic (55°C) anaerobic digestion have been studied in a semi-continuous stirred tank reactor (SSTR). Two types of wastes were used: synthetic OFMSW (average particle size of 1mm; 0.71 g Volatile Solids/g waste), and OFMSW coming from a composting full scale plant (average particle size of 30 mm; 0.16 g Volatile Solids/g waste). A modification of a widely-validated product-generation kinetic model has been proposed. Results obtained from the modified-model parameterization at steady-state (that include new kinetic parameters as K, Y(pMAX) and θ(MIN)) indicate that the features of the feedstock strongly influence the kinetics of the process. The overall specific growth rate of microorganisms (μ(max)) with synthetic OFMSW is 43% higher compared to OFMSW coming from a composting full scale plant: 0.238 d(-1) (K=1.391 d(-1); Y(pMAX)=1.167 L CH(4)/gDOC(c); θ(MIN)=7.924 days) vs. 0.135 d(-1) (K=1.282 d(-1); Y(pMAX)=1.150 L CH(4)/gDOC(c); θ(MIN)=9.997 days) respectively. Finally, it could be emphasized that the validation of proposed modified-model has been performed successfully by means of the simulation of non-steady state data for the different SRTs tested with each waste.

Geobacter: the microbe electric's physiology, ecology, and practical applications.Geobacter species specialize in making electrical contacts with extracellular electron acceptors and other organisms. This permits Geobacter species to fill important niches in a diversity of anaerobic environments. Geobacter species appear to be the primary agents for coupling the oxidation of organic compounds to the reduction of insoluble Fe(III) and Mn(IV) oxides in many soils and sediments, a process of global biogeochemical significance. Some Geobacter species can anaerobically oxidize aromatic hydrocarbons and play an important role in aromatic hydrocarbon removal from contaminated aquifers. The ability of Geobacter species to reductively precipitate uranium and related contaminants has led to the development of bioremediation strategies for contaminated environments. Geobacter species produce higher current densities than any other known organism in microbial fuel cells and are common colonizers of electrodes harvesting electricity from organic wastes and aquatic sediments. Direct interspecies electron exchange between Geobacter species and syntrophic partners appears to be an important process in anaerobic wastewater digesters. Functional and comparative genomic studies have begun to reveal important aspects of Geobacter physiology and regulation, but much remains unexplored. Quantifying key gene transcripts and proteins of subsurface Geobacter communities has proven to be a powerful approach to diagnose the in situ physiological status of Geobacter species during groundwater bioremediation. The growth and activity of Geobacter species in the subsurface and their biogeochemical impact under different environmental conditions can be predicted with a systems biology approach in which genome-scale metabolic models are coupled with appropriate physical/chemical models. The proficiency of Geobacter species in transferring electrons to insoluble minerals, electrodes, and possibly other microorganisms can be attributed to their unique "microbial nanowires," pili that conduct electrons along their length with metallic-like conductivity. Surprisingly, the abundant c-type cytochromes of Geobacter species do not contribute to this long-range electron transport, but cytochromes are important for making the terminal electrical connections with Fe(III) oxides and electrodes and also function as capacitors, storing charge to permit continued respiration when extracellular electron acceptors are temporarily unavailable. The high conductivity of Geobacter pili and biofilms and the ability of biofilms to function as supercapacitors are novel properties that might contribute to the field of bioelectronics. The study of Geobacter species has revealed a remarkable number of microbial physiological properties that had not previously been described in any microorganism. Further investigation of these environmentally relevant and physiologically unique organisms is warranted.

Effect of thermal alkaline pretreatment on the anaerobic digestion of wasted activated sludge.The effect of alkaline pretreatment of waste-activated sludge, using two models to study the sequential hydrolysis rates of suspended (Sanders' surface model) and dissolved (Goel's saturation model) solids, on the mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic digestion rate is evaluated. The pretreatment, which reduces the size of the solids, increases the reaction rate by increasing the surface area and the specific surface hydrolysis constant (K(SBK)); at thermophilic conditions from 0.45 x 10(-3) kg m(-2) d(-1) for the fresh sludge to 0.74 x 10(-3) kg m(-2) d(-1) for the pretreated sludge and at mesophilic conditions these values are 0.28 x 10(-3) kg m(-2) d(-1) and 0.47 x 10(-3) kg m(-2) d(-1) confirming the usefulness of a pretreatment for solids reduction. But for soluble solids, the thermoalkaline pretreatment decreases the reaction rates by inducing a competitive inhibition on the thermophilic anaerobic digestion rate while in the mesophilic range, a non-competitive inhibition is observed. A mathematical simulation of the consecutive reactions, suspended solids to dissolved solids and to methane in staged anaerobic thermophilic-mesophilic digestion, shows that with 4% suspended solids concentration it is better not to use a thermoalkaline pretreatment because overall solids reduction and total methane production are not as good as without pretreatment.

Assessing the role of biochemical methane potential tests in determining anaerobic degradability rate and extent.The biodegradability and bioavailability of hydrolysis-limited substrates under anaerobic (and aerobic) conditions can be represented by two key parameters--degradability (f(d)), or the percentage that can be effectively be destroyed during digestion, and first order hydrolysis coefficient (k(hyd)), or the speed at which material breaks down. Biochemical methane potential (BMP) testing uses a batch test (in triplicate), and by fitting against a first order model, can fit both parameters in the same test. BMP testing is now being widely used for anaerobic process feasibility and design purposes, and standardisation efforts are ongoing. In this paper, we address a number of key issues relating to the test method and its analysis. This includes proposal of a new fitting and parameter estimation method, evaluation of the impact of inoculum to substrate ratio on fitted parameters, and comparison to performance in continuous systems. The new parameter estimation technique provides an estimate of parameter uncertainty and correlation, and is clearly more suitable than model transformation and linear regression. An inoculum volume ratio of at least 50% (2:1 on VS basis) was required on a cellulose substrate to use methane production as primary indicator, as found by comparing methane production and solubilisation of cellulose. Finally, on a typical material, waste activated sludge, the batch test was slightly conservative in terms of degradability and rate, indicating a bias in the BMP test. The test is a cost-effective and capable method to evaluate potential substrates, but it should be noted that it is generally conservative, especially if sub-optimal inoculum is used.

Relative kinetics of anaerobic digestion under thermophilic and mesophilic conditions.With several advantages over the conventional mesophilic anaerobic digestion, such as better sludge quality and higher biogas production, thermophilic anaerobic digestion is regarded as a promising alternative for sludge digestion. Primary and activated sludges are complex materials, and historically, analysis of kinetics has been largely on whole sludge, without analysis of individual components. This paper analyses relative digestion kinetics of pure substrates designed to target main stages of sludge digestion under thermophilic and mesophilic conditions. Hydrolysis rate of cellulose was significantly influenced by temperature with hydrolysis coefficients of--at 55 degrees C (0.7 +/- 0.1 day(-1)), 60 degrees C (0.8 +/- 0.2 day(-1)), 65 degrees C (1.1 +/- 0.2 day(-1)) and 70 degrees C (1.2 +/- 0.2 day(-1)) over 38 degrees C (0.4 +/- 0.1 day(-1)). This strongly follows the Arrhenius relationship, with an activation energy (E(A)) of 31 +/- 4 kJ mol(-1), corresponding to an increase of 1.5x for each 10 degrees C of temperature increase. Glucose uptake was rapid with a wide variety of fermentation products detected under mesophilic conditions, while uptake was slower under thermophilic conditions with acetate and propionate being dominant products. Propionate acetogenesis and acetate-utilizing methanogenesis kinetics were not influenced by temperatures. Hydrolysis is widely regarded as a rate-limiting step in sludge digestion, thus improvements in hydrolysis rates as measured during this study have the potential for significant improvements in overall apparent sludge digestion rates.

A mathematical model for the interactive behavior of sulfate-reducing bacteria and methanogens during anaerobic digestion.Anaerobic degradation of waste involves different classes of microorganisms, and there are different types of interactions among them for substrates, terminal electron acceptors, and so on. A mathematical model is developed based on the mass balance of different substrates, products, and microbes present in the system to study the interaction between methanogens and sulfate-reducing bacteria (SRB). The performance of major microbial consortia present in the system, such as propionate-utilizing acetogens, butyrate-utilizing acetogens, acetoclastic methanogens, hydrogen-utilizing methanogens, and SRB were considered and analyzed in the model. Different substrates consumed and products formed during the process also were considered in the model. The experimental observations and model predictions showed very good prediction capabilities of the model. Model prediction was validated statistically. It was observed that the model-predicted values matched the experimental data very closely, with an average error of 3.9%.

Combination of batch experiments with continuous reactor data for ADM1 calibration: application to anaerobic digestion of pig slurry.Modelling anaerobic digestion processes is a key aspect of studying and optimizing digesters and related waste streams. However, for the satisfactory prediction of biogas production and effluent characteristics, some parameters have to be calibrated according to the characteristics of the substrates. This article describes a calibration procedure for the IWA 'Anaerobic Digestion Model no. 1' applied to the modelling of a digester for treatment of pig slurry. The most sensitive parameters were selected and calibrated combining results from a continuous digester and from batch trials run with the sludge sampled from the digester and the addition of specific substrates. According to the sensitivity analysis, acetoclastic methanogenesis, acetogenesis of propionate and acidogenesis of sugars were identified as the main sensitive steps in our case. The calibration procedure led us to modify slightly acetogenesis of propionate kinetic. However, acetoclastic methanogenesis and acidogenesis of sugars kinetics were significantly reduced by decreasing km and increasing Ks. Indeed, for instance, a decrease of km_ac from 8 to 7 day(-1) combined with an increase of Ks_ac from 0.15 to 1.5 kgCOD/m3 was necessary. After calibration, ADM1 provides an accurate simulation of the continuous reactor results.

Improved volatile fatty acids production from proteins of sewage sludge with anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonate (AQDS) under anaerobic condition.Organic matters in sewage sludge can be converted into volatile fatty acids (VFAs) as renewable carbon sources. This work for the first time applied anthraquinone-2,6-disulfonate (AQDS) for enhancing VFA production from sewage sludge. With 0.066 or 0.33 g AQDS g(-1) dried solids (DS), the yields for VFAs peak at 403 or 563 mg l(-1), 1.9- or 2.7-fold to the control. The accumulated VFAs were principally composed of acetate and propionate. The AQDS enhances degradation rates of model proteins (bovine serum albumin), but had little enhancement on that of model polysaccharides (dextrans). The acidification step is proposed the rate-limiting step for VFA production from sewage sludge, in which the AQDS molecules shuttle electrons to accelerate the redox reactions associated with amino acid degradation. Methanogenic activities are inhibited in the presence of AQDS. The AQDS-assisted VFAs are renewable organic carbon sources, although their direct use for anaerobic digestion is not advised.

Low temperature thermo-chemical pretreatment of dairy waste activated sludge for anaerobic digestion process.An investigation into the influence of low temperature thermo-chemical pretreatment on sludge reduction in a semi-continuous anaerobic reactor was performed. Firstly, effect of sludge pretreatment was evaluated by COD solubilization, suspended solids reduction and biogas production. At optimized condition (60 °C with pH 12), COD solubilization, suspended solids, reduction and biogas production was 23%, 22% and 51% higher than the control, respectively. Secondly, semi-continuous process performance was studied in a lab-scale semi-continuous anaerobic reactor (5 L), with 4 L working volume. With three operated SRTs, the SRT of 15 days was found to be most appropriate for economic operation of the reactor. Combining pretreatment with anaerobic digestion led to 80.5%, 117% and 90.4% of TS, SS and VS reduction respectively, with an improvement of 103% in biogas production. Thus, low temperature thermo-chemical can play an important role in reducing sludge production.

Large eddy simulation of mechanical mixing in anaerobic digesters.A comprehensive study of anaerobic digestion requires an advanced turbulence model technique to accurately predict mixing flow patterns because the digestion process that involves mass transfer between anaerobes and their substrates is primarily dependent on detailed information about the fine structure of turbulence in the digesters. This study presents a large eddy simulation (LES) of mechanical agitation of non-Newtonian fluids in anaerobic digesters, in which the sliding mesh method is used to characterize the impeller rotation. The three subgrid scale (SGS) models investigated are: (i) Smagorinsky-Lilly model, (ii) wall-adapting local eddy-viscosity model, and (iii) kinetic energy transport (KET) model. The simulation results show that the three SGS models produce very similar flow fields. A comparison of the simulated and measured axial velocities indicates that the LES profile shapes are in general agreement with the experimental data but they differ markedly in velocity magnitudes. A check of impeller power and flow numbers demonstrates that all the SGS models give excellent predictions, with the KET model performing the best. Moreover, the performance of six Reynolds-averaged Navier-Stokes turbulence models are assessed and compared with the LES results.

Old beagle dogs have lower faecal concentrations of some fermentation products and lower peripheral lymphocyte counts than young adult beagles.The effects of age on microbiota composition, gut fermentation end-product formation and peripheral lymphocyte numbers were compared between old and young adult Beagle dogs fed four kibble diets differing in yeast cell wall contents. The experiment had a double 4 × 4 Latin square design, one with four mature dogs (4 years old) and the other with four old dogs (10 years old), with four replicates (diets) per dog. In each period a 15 d adaptation period preceded a 5 d total collection of faeces for the digestibility trial. On day 21, fresh faecal samples were collected for the determination of bacterial enumeration, pH, biogenic amine and short-chain fatty acid. Flow cytometry was used for immunophenotypic evaluation. Dogs were fed four kibble diets with similar composition with 0, 0.15, 0.30 and 0.45 % of yeast cell wall (as-fed), respectively. Data were evaluated using general linear models of Statistical Analysis Systems statistical software (P < 0.05). No evidence of a difference in faecal bacteria counts between ages was found (total aerobes, total anaerobes, Bifidobacterium, Lactobacillus, Clostridium and Escherichia coli: P>0.15). Faecal concentrations of butyrate, histamine, agmatine and spermine were lower (P ≤ 0.05) and faecal pH was higher (P = 0.03) in older dogs than in mature adult dogs, suggesting an alteration in bacterial metabolic activity, or in the rate of intestinal absorption of these compounds. Concentrations of T-lymphocytes, T-cytotoxic lymphocytes and B-lymphocytes were also lower (P ≤ 0.01) in older dogs than in mature adult dogs. The study confirmed alterations in peripheral lymphocytes and revealed a reduced concentration of some fermentation end products in the colon of old dogs.

Three-reaction model for the anaerobic digestion of microalgae.Coupling an anaerobic digester to a microalgal culture has received increasing attention as an alternative process for combined bioenergy production and depollution. In this article, a dynamic model for anaerobic digestion of microalgae is developed with the aim of improving the management of such a coupled system. This model describes the dynamics of inorganic nitrogen and volatile fatty acids since both can lead to inhibition and therefore process instability. Three reactions are considered: Two hydrolysis-acidogenesis steps in parallel for sugars/lipids and for proteins, followed by a methanogenesis step. The proposed model accurately reproduces experimental data for anaerobic digestion of the freshwater microalgae Chlorella vulgaris with an organic loading rate of 1 gCOD L(-1) d(-1). In particular, the three-reaction pathway allows to adequately represent the observed decoupling between biogas production and nitrogen release. The reduced complexity of this model makes it suitable for developing advanced, model-based control and monitoring strategies.

Syntrophic acetate oxidation in two-phase (acid-methane) anaerobic digesters.The microbial processes involved in two-phase anaerobic digestion were investigated by operating a laboratory-scale acid-phase (AP) reactor and analyzing two full-scale, two-phase anaerobic digesters operated under mesophilic (35 °C) conditions. The digesters received a blend of primary sludge and waste activated sludge (WAS). Methane levels of 20% in the laboratory-scale reactor indicated the presence of methanogenic activity in the AP. A phylogenetic analysis of an archaeal 16S rRNA gene clone library of one of the full-scale AP digesters showed that 82% and 5% of the clones were affiliated with the orders Methanobacteriales and Methanosarcinales, respectively. These results indicate that substantial levels of aceticlastic methanogens (order Methanosarcinales) were not maintained at the low solids retention times and acidic conditions (pH 5.2-5.5) of the AP, and that methanogenesis was carried out by hydrogen-utilizing methanogens of the order Methanobacteriales. Approximately 43, 31, and 9% of the archaeal clones from the methanogenic phase (MP) digester were affiliated with the orders Methanosarcinales, Methanomicrobiales, and Methanobacteriales, respectively. A phylogenetic analysis of a bacterial 16S rRNA gene clone library suggested the presence of acetate-oxidizing bacteria (close relatives of Thermacetogenium phaeum, 'Syntrophaceticus schinkii,' and Clostridium ultunense). The high abundance of hydrogen consuming methanogens and the presence of known acetate-oxidizing bacteria suggest that acetate utilization by acetate oxidizing bacteria in syntrophic interaction with hydrogen-utilizing methanogens was an important pathway in the second-stage of the two-phase digestion, which was operated at high ammonium-N concentrations (1.0 and 1.4 g/L). A modified version of the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) with extensions for syntrophic acetate oxidation and weak-acid inhibition adequately described the dynamic profiles of volatile acid production/degradation and methane generation observed in the laboratory-scale AP reactor. The model was validated with historical data from the full-scale digesters.

Anaerobic digestion of starch-polyvinyl alcohol biopolymer packaging: biodegradability and environmental impact assessment.The digestibility of a starch-polyvinyl alcohol (PVOH) biopolymer insulated cardboard coolbox was investigated under a defined anaerobic digestion (AD) system with key parameters characterized. Laboratory results were combined with industrial operational data to develop a site-specific life cycle assessment (LCA) model. Inoculated with active bacterial trophic groups, the anaerobic biodegradability of three starch-PVOH biopolymers achieved 58-62%. The LCA modeling showed that the environmental burdens of the starch-PVOH biopolymer packaging under AD conditions on acidification, eutrophication, global warming and photochemical oxidation potential were dominated by atmospheric emissions released from substrate degradation and fuel combustion, whereas energy consumption and infrastructure requirements were the causes of abiotic depletion, ozone depletion and toxic impacts. Nevertheless, for this bio-packaging, AD of the starch-PVOH biopolymer combined with recycling of the cardboard emerged as the environmentally superior option and optimization of the energy utilization system could bring further environmental benefits to the AD process.

Model-based predictions of anaerobic digestion of agricultural substrates for biogas production.A modified Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1), calibrated on a laboratory digester with a feeding mix of 30% weight of cow manure and 70% weight of corn silage, was implemented, showing its performances of simulation as a decision-making and planning-supporting tool for the anaerobic digestion of agricultural substrates. The virtual fermenter obtained was used to conduct simulations with different feeding compositions and loading rates of cow manure, corn silage, grass silage and rape oil. All simulations were started at the same initial state which was represented by a steady state with an organic loading rate of 2.5 kg ODM/(mdigester3∗d). The effects of the different feeding combinations on biogas composition and biogas yield were predicted reasonably, and partly verified with the available literature data. Results demonstrated that the simulations could be helpful for taking decisions on agricultural biogas plant operation or experimental set-ups, if used advisedly.

Anaerobic biodegradation of ethylthionocarbamate by the mixed bacteria under various electron acceptor conditions.Biodegradation behavior and kinetics of ethylthionocarbamate under nitrate, sulfate and ferric reducing conditions by mixed cultures enriched from the anaerobic digester sludge was investigated. The results showed that ethylthionocarbamate could be degraded independently by the mixed cultures coupled to nitrate, sulfate, and ferric reduction, and meanwhile, nitrite, sulfide, and ferrous were accumulated as a result of nitrate, sulfate and ferric reduction, respectively. Ferric was a more favorable terminal electron acceptor compared to nitrate and sulfate. The order of the electron acceptors with decreasing biodegradation rates of the ethylthionocarbamate was: ferric>nitrate>sulfate, and the corresponding maximum biodegradation rate was 7.240, 6.267, and 4.602 mg/(L·d), respectively. The anaerobic biodegradation of ethylthionocarbamate under various electron acceptor conditions can be accurately described by first order exponential decay kinetics.

Effects of soluble and particulate substrate on the carbon and energy footprint of wastewater treatment processes.Most wastewater treatment plants monitor routinely carbonaceous and nitrogenous load parameters in influent and effluent streams, and often in the intermediate steps. COD fractionation discriminates the selective removal of VSS components in different operations, allowing accurate quantification of the energy requirements and mass flows for secondary treatment, sludge digestion, and sedimentation. We analysed the different effects of COD fractions on carbon and energy footprint in a wastewater treatment plant with activated sludge in nutrient removal mode and anaerobic digestion of the sludge with biogas energy recovery. After presenting a simple rational procedure for COD and solids fractions quantification, we use our carbon and energy footprint models to quantify the effects of varying fractions on carbon equivalent flows, process energy demand and recovery. A full-scale real process was modelled with this procedure and the results are reported in terms of energy and carbon footprint. For a given process, the increase of the ratio sCOD/COD increases the energy demand on the aeration reactors, the associated CO(2) direct emission from respiration, and the indirect emission for power generation. Even though it appears as if enhanced primary sedimentation is a carbon and energy footprint mitigation practice, care must be used since the nutrient removal process downstream may suffer from an excessive bCOD removal and an increased mean cell retention time for nutrient removal may be required.

[Effect of NaOH-treatment on dry-thermophilic anaerobic digestion of Spartina alterniflora].In order to improve the biotransformation rate of lignocellulosic materials, sodium hydroxide (NaOH) was widely used to pretreat lignocellulosic materials. Effect of NaOH-treatment on dry-thermophilic anaerobic digestion of Spartina alternflora was studied by batch model under the temperature of 55 degrees C +/- 1 degrees C, at the initial total solid loading (TSL) of 20%. The results indicated that biogas production was inhibited by NaOH-treatment and improved by NaOH-treatment with water washed. The cumulative biogas yield of control (CK), NaOH-treated and NaOH-treated with water washed (NaOH + water) were 268.35 mL/g, 205.76 mL/g and 299.97 mL/g, respectively. The methane content of CK and NaOH + water treatments kept stable while fluctuation of NaOH-treated treatment during anaerobic digestion process was observed. Compared with CK and NaOH + water treatments, methane content of NaOH-treated treatment was improved by 5.30%. The content of hemi-cellulose and cellulose of S. alternifora decreased while content of lignin of S. alterniflora increased after 51-day anaerobic digestion. The crystallinity of cellulose of S. alterniflora increased after NaOH-treatment which was consistent to the result of FTIR. The lignocellulosic structure was destroyed and the biodegradability of S. alterniflora was increased by NaOH pretreatment. However, the amount of Na+ was taken into the anaerobic system, besides the high Na+ content in the plant itself which inhibited the anaerobic microorganisms. Therefore, NaOH-treatment is considered to be unsuitable for the anaerobic digestion of S. alterniflora.

Model selection, identification and validation in anaerobic digestion: a review.Anaerobic digestion enables waste (water) treatment and energy production in the form of biogas. The successful implementation of this process has lead to an increasing interest worldwide. However, anaerobic digestion is a complex biological process, where hundreds of microbial populations are involved, and whose start-up and operation are delicate issues. In order to better understand the process dynamics and to optimize the operating conditions, the availability of dynamic models is of paramount importance. Such models have to be inferred from prior knowledge and experimental data collected from real plants. Modeling and parameter identification are vast subjects, offering a realm of approaches and methods, which can be difficult to fully understand by scientists and engineers dedicated to the plant operation and improvements. This review article discusses existing modeling frameworks and methodologies for parameter estimation and model validation in the field of anaerobic digestion processes. The point of view is pragmatic, intentionally focusing on simple but efficient methods.

The rheological behaviour of anaerobic digested sludge.Producing biogas energy from the anaerobic digestion of wastewater sludge is one of the most challenging tasks facing engineers, because they are dealing with vast quantities of fundamentally scientifically poorly understood and unpredictable materials; while digesters need constant flow properties to operate efficiently. An accurate estimate of sludge rheological properties is required for the design and efficient operation of digestion, including mixing and pumping. In this paper, we have determined the rheological behaviour of digested sludge at different concentrations, and highlighted common features. At low shear stress, digested sludge behaves as a linear viscoelastic solid, but shear banding can occur and modify the apparent behaviour. At very high shear stress, the behaviour fits well to the Bingham model. Finally, we show that the rheological behaviour of digested sludge is qualitatively the same at different solids concentrations, and depends only on the yield stress and Bingham viscosity, both parameters being closely linked to the solids concentration.

Effect of microaerobic conditions on the degradation kinetics of cellulose.Limited oxygen supply to sludge digesters has shown to be an effective method to eliminate hydrogen sulfide from the biogas produced during anaerobic digestion but uneven results have been found in terms of the effect on the degradation of complex organic matter. In this study, the effect that the limited oxygen supply provoked on the "anaerobic" degradation of cellulose was evaluated in batch-tests. The microaerobic assays showed to reach a similar maximum production of methane than the anaerobic ones after 19 d and a similar hydrolytic activity (considering a first order rate constant); however, the microaerobic assays presented a shorter lag-phase time than the anaerobic test resulting in faster production of methane during the first steps of the degradation; specifically, the maximum methane production found in the anaerobic test in 19 d was found in the microaerobic test before the day 15.

Modelling anaerobic digestion of concentrated black water and faecal matter in accumulation system.A dynamic mathematical model based on anaerobic digestion model no. 1 (ADM1) was developed for accumulation (AC) system treating concentrated black water and faecal matter at different temperatures. The AC system was investigated for the treatment of waste (water) produced from the following systems: vacuum toilet for black water (VBW), vacuum toilet for faeces with urine separation (VF), dry toilet (DT), dry toilets for faeces with urine separation (DF), separated faecal matter from conventional black water by filter bag (FB). For evaluation of the AC system treating the proposed waste (water) sources at 20 and 35 degrees C, two options were studied: (1) The filling period of the AC system was constant for all waste (water) sources (either 1, 3 or 6 months) and for each period, the seed sludge volume was varied; (2) The volume of the AC system was constant for all proposed waste (water) sources. The results showed that the filling period of the AC system was the main parameter affecting the system performance, followed by operational temperature, while the increase of the seed sludge volume slightly enhanced the performance of the system. The model results indicated that the filling period of the AC system should be higher than 150 days for obtaining a stable performance. It was found that the hydrolysis of biodegradable particulate chemical oxygen demand (COD) is the rate limiting step, as volatile fatty acid concentration is very low in all experimental conditions (< 200 mgCOD/L at 20 degrees C and < 100 mgCOD/L at 35 degrees C). Based on the results of the two options, it was found that the concentrated waste (water) sources have better performance than the diluted waste (water) sources, like VBW waste (water). Furthermore, smaller volume will be required for the AC system.

Wastewater as a resource: a unique approach to achieving energy sustainability.A wastewater-treatment flowsheet was developed to integrate uniquely designed biological processes with physical-chemical unit processes, allowing conversion of the organic carbon in the wastewater to methane, the removal and recovery of phosphorus and nitrogen from the wastewater, and the production of water suitable for reuse. In the flowsheet, energy is derived from the wastewater by first shunting a large fraction of the organic carbon in the wastewater to a solids slurry which is treated via anaerobic digestion. The anaerobic digestion system consists of focused pulsed (FP) pretreatment coupled to anaerobic membrane bioreactors (MBRs). Computer modelling and simulation results are used to optimize design of the system. Energy generation from the system is maximized and costs are reduced by using modest levels of recycle flow from the anaerobic MBRS to the FP pretreatment step.

Impact of copper and cadmium on aerobic and anaerobic digestibility of sonicated sludge.The effects of the introduction of a sludge reduction process such as ultrasound on batch aerobic and anaerobic biodegradability after exposition to two metals (copper and cadmium) were investigated. The specific energy of ultrasonic treatment applied to the sludge was 200,000 kJ kg TS(-1). Ultrasonic treatment led to floc size reduction and to organic matter solubilization. Low copper (< 5 mg L(-1)) and cadmium (< 1 mg L(-1)) concentration improved aerobic biodegradability. For high metal concentration the maximal instantaneous biogas production rate q(max) inhibition by copper and cadmium was modeled by a saturation-type relationship under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. Under aerobic conditions, respiration inhibition was not affected by sonication. Cadmium inhibition (74%) was more than copper (58%). The positive effect of sonication on CO2 production was maintained after metal introduction. Under anaerobic conditions, metal introduction cancelled out the positive effect of the treatment. The sonicated sludge was 16% less sensitive to copper inhibition but 10% more sensitive to cadmium inhibition compared to non sonicated sludge.

Inhibitory effects of Cu (II) on fermentative methane production using bamboo wastewater as substrate.The toxic effects of Cu (II) present in bamboo industry wastewater (BIWW) upon its anaerobic biodegradability of organic content were investigated. The analysis through the Modified Gompertz model indicated that the optimum chemical oxygen demand (COD) concentration for digestion was 22,780 mg L(-1) with a maximum R(m) (maximum CH(4) production rate) value of 2.8 mL h(-1), corresponding to a specific methanogenic activity (SMA) of 2.38 mL CH(4) g VSS(-1)h(-1). The inhibitory effects of Cu (II) on cumulative methane production depended on its concentration and contact time. Low concentrations (5 mg L(-1)) of Cu (II) showed a stimulating effect on methanogenesis. Methane was not detected when the Cu (II) concentration was increased beyond 300 mg L(-1). The IC(50) value of Cu (II), the Cu (II) concentration that causes a 50% reduction in the cumulative methane production, was 18.32 mg L(-1) (15.9 mg Cu(II) gVSS(-1)).

In vitro and in vivo antioxidant activity of exopolysaccharide fractions from Bifidobacterium animalis RH.The aim of the study was to purify the exopolysaccharides (EPS) produced from Bifidobacterium animalis RH, which was isolated from the feces of Bama centenarians in Guangxi of China, and evaluate their antioxidant activities in vitro and in vivo. 2 fractions, a neutral EPS fraction (EPSa) and an acidic EPS fraction (EPSb), were obtained and compared for antioxidative activity. In vitro, they both showed remarkable inhibition effect on lipid peroxidation and strong DPPH radical scavenging activity, hydroxyl radical scavenging activity, superoxide radical scavenging activity, in which the last two were measured by the electron spin resonance (ESR). In vivo, EPSa and EPSb were orally administrated for 30 days in a d-galactose induced aged mice model. As results, they both could significantly increase the activities of SOD, CAT and total antioxidant capacity (TAOC) in serums and glutathione GST in livers. They also could inhibit significantly the formation of MDA in serums and livers, and reduce the activity of MAO and lipofuscin accumulation in mice brain. Moreover, EPSb exhibited much higher antioxidant activities than EPSa in vitro and in vivo. The results suggested that EPS fractions of Bifidobacterium animalis RH had direct and potent antioxidant activities.

Evaluating and modeling biogas production from municipal fat, oil, and grease and synthetic kitchen waste in anaerobic co-digestions.The feasibility of using synthetic kitchen waste (KW) and fat, oil, and grease (FOG) as co-substrates in the anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge (WAS) was investigated using two series of biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests. Ranges of ideal substrate to inoculum (S/I) ratio were determined for the FOG (0.25-0.75) and KW (0.80-1.26) as single substrates in the first experiment. The second experiment, which estimated the methane production performances of FOG and KW as co-substrates for WAS co-digestion, was conducted based on the optimal parameters selected from the results of the first experiment. Results indicated that co-digestions with FOG and KW enhanced methane production from 117±2.02 mL/gTVS (with only WAS) to 418±13.7 mL/gTVS and 324±4.11 mL/gTVS, respectively. FOG exhibited more biogas production than KW as co-substrate. Non-linear regression results showed that co-substrate addition shortened the lag phases of organic biodegradation from 81.8 (with only WAS) to 28.3 h with FOG and 3.90 h with KW.

A new algorithm to characterize biodegradability of biomass during anaerobic digestion: influence of lignin concentration on methane production potential.We examined the influence of fibrous fractions of biomass on biochemical methane potential (BMP) with the objective of developing an economical and easy-to-use statistical model to predict BMP, and hence the biodegradability of organic material (BD) for biogas production. The model was developed either for energy crops (grass, maize, and straw) or for animal manures, or as a combined model for these two biomass groups. It was found that lignin concentration in volatile solids (VS) was the strongest predictor of BMP for all the biomass samples. The square of the sample correlation coefficient (R(2)) from the BMP versus lignin was 0.908 (p<0.0001), 0.763 (p<0.001) and 0.883 (p<0.001) for animal manure, energy crops and the combined model, respectively. Validation of the combined model was carried out using 65 datasets from the literature.

H2 consumption by anaerobic non-methanogenic mixed cultures.The impact of H2 consumption, by homoacetogens, on the overall hydrogen yield in mixed culture fermentation is the focus of this study. Batch reactors were used to test the ability of anaerobic digested sludge, heat treated to eliminate methanogens, to produce and consume molecular hydrogen. The measured average hydrogen production rate from 4.2 g glucose/L was 44 +/- 4 mmol H2/L sludge . d, while the H2 consumption rate varied much more, in the range from 4 to 62 mmol H2/L sludge . d. Hydrogen consumption rate depends on acetic acid concentration, headspace H2 partial pressure and mass transfer rates. Different but relatively long lag-phases for hydrogen consumption were observed. It is concluded that homoacetogenesis can have a significant negative effect on bio-H2 production by mixed cultures, limiting the possibilities for sustainable solutions.

Biotransformation of nitrosamines and precursor secondary amines under methanogenic conditions.The biotransformation potential of six nitrosamines and their precursor secondary amines by a mixed methanogenic culture was investigated. Among the six nitrosamines tested, N-nitrosodimethylamine (NDMA), N-nitrosomethylethylamine (NMEA), and N-nitrosopyrrolidine (NPYR) were almost completely degraded but only when degradable electron donors were available. On the contrary, N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA), N-nitrosodipropylamine (NDPA), and N-nitrosodibutylamine (NDBA) were not degraded. Three precursor secondary amines, corresponding to the three biodegradable nitrosamines, were also completely utilized even with very low levels of available electron donors. The secondary amine precursors of the three, nonbiodegradable nitrosamines were also recalcitrant. A bioassay conducted to elucidate the biotransformation pathway of NDMA in the mixed methanogenic culture using H(2) as the electron donor showed that NDMA was utilized as an electron acceptor and transformed to dimethylamine (DMA), which in turn was degraded to ammonia and methane. The H(2) threshold concentration for NDMA bioreduction ranged between 0.0017 and 0.031 atm. Such a high H(2) threshold concentration suggests that in mixed methanogenic cultures, NDMA reducers are weak competitors to other, H(2)-consuming microbial species, such as homoacetogens and methanogens. Thus, complete removal of nitrosamines in anaerobic digestion systems, where the H(2) partial pressure is typically below 10(-4) atm, is difficult to achieve.

Model calibration and validation for OFMSW and sewage sludge co-digestion reactors.A mathematical model has recently been proposed by the authors to simulate the biochemical processes that prevail in a co-digestion reactor fed with sewage sludge and the organic fraction of municipal solid waste. This model is based on the Anaerobic Digestion Model no. 1 of the International Water Association, which has been extended to include the co-digestion processes, using surface-based kinetics to model the organic waste disintegration and conversion to carbohydrates, proteins and lipids. When organic waste solids are present in the reactor influent, the disintegration process is the rate-limiting step of the overall co-digestion process. The main advantage of the proposed modeling approach is that the kinetic constant of such a process does not depend on the waste particle size distribution (PSD) and rather depends only on the nature and composition of the waste particles. The model calibration aimed to assess the kinetic constant of the disintegration process can therefore be conducted using organic waste samples of any PSD, and the resulting value will be suitable for all the organic wastes of the same nature as the investigated samples, independently of their PSD. This assumption was proven in this study by biomethane potential experiments that were conducted on organic waste samples with different particle sizes. The results of these experiments were used to calibrate and validate the mathematical model, resulting in a good agreement between the simulated and observed data for any investigated particle size of the solid waste. This study confirms the strength of the proposed model and calibration procedure, which can thus be used to assess the treatment efficiency and predict the methane production of full-scale digesters.

Anaerobic respiration of Escherichia coli in the mouse intestine.The intestine is inhabited by a large microbial community consisting primarily of anaerobes and, to a lesser extent, facultative anaerobes, such as Escherichia coli, which we have shown requires aerobic respiration to compete successfully in the mouse intestine (S. A. Jones et al., Infect. Immun. 75:4891-4899, 2007). If facultative anaerobes efficiently lower oxygen availability in the intestine, then their sustained growth must also depend on anaerobic metabolism. In support of this idea, mutants lacking nitrate reductase or fumarate reductase have extreme colonization defects. Here, we further explore the role of anaerobic respiration in colonization using the streptomycin-treated mouse model. We found that respiratory electron flow is primarily via the naphthoquinones, which pass electrons to cytochrome bd oxidase and the anaerobic terminal reductases. We found that E. coli uses nitrate and fumarate in the intestine, but not nitrite, dimethyl sulfoxide, or trimethylamine N-oxide. Competitive colonizations revealed that cytochrome bd oxidase is more advantageous than nitrate reductase or fumarate reductase. Strains lacking nitrate reductase outcompeted fumarate reductase mutants once the nitrate concentration in cecal mucus reached submillimolar levels, indicating that fumarate is the more important anaerobic electron acceptor in the intestine because nitrate is limiting. Since nitrate is highest in the absence of E. coli, we conclude that E. coli is the only bacterium in the streptomycin-treated mouse large intestine that respires nitrate. Lastly, we demonstrated that a mutant lacking the NarXL regulator (activator of the NarG system), but not a mutant lacking the NarP-NarQ regulator, has a colonization defect, consistent with the advantage provided by NarG. The emerging picture is one in which gene regulation is tuned to balance expression of the terminal reductases that E. coli uses to maximize its competitiveness and achieve the highest possible population in the intestine.

Comparison of two mathematical models for correlating the organic matter removal efficiency with hydraulic retention time in a hybrid anaerobic baffled reactor treating molasses.A modelling of the anaerobic digestion process of molasses was conducted in a 70-L multistage anaerobic biofilm reactor or hybrid anaerobic baffled reactor with six compartments at an operating temperature of 26 °C. Five hydraulic retention times (6, 16, 24, 72 and 120 h) were studied at a constant influent COD concentration of 10,000 mg/L. Two different kinetic models (one was based on a dispersion model with first-order kinetics for substrate consumption and the other based on a modification of the Young equation) were evaluated and compared to predict the organic matter removal efficiency or fractional conversion. The first-order kinetic constant obtained with the dispersion model was 0.28 h(-1), the Peclet dispersion number being 45, with a mean relative error of 2%. The model based on the Young equation predicted the behaviour of the reactor more accurately showing deviations lower than 10% between the theoretical and experimental values of the fractional conversion, the mean relative error being 0.9% in this case.

Increased bacterial translocation in gluten-sensitive mice is independent of small intestinal paracellular permeability defect.We investigated whether treatment with gliadin induces a paracellular permeability defect that enhances bacterial translocation to mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) via resident dendritic cells (DC) expressing TLR-2 or 4 in HCD4/HLA-DQ8 transgenic mice.
HLA-DQ8 transgenic mice were sensitized and subsequently gavaged with gliadin, in the presence or absence of AT1001 (paracellular permeability inhibitor). Non-sensitized mice were gavaged with indomethacin (permeability inducer) or rice cereal. CD11c and CD103 (DC markers) and TLR-2 and 4 were investigated by immunostaining. Intestinal permeability was assessed by paracellular flux of (51)Cr-EDTA in Ussing chambers. Bacterial translocation to MLN was performed by plate counting on aerobic and anaerobic conditions.
In gliadin-treated mice, both (51)Cr-EDTA flux in jejunal mucosa and aerobic and anaerobic bacterial counts in MLN were increased (p < 0.05) compared to indomethacin-treated mice and controls. The inhibitor AT1001 normalized (51)Cr-EDTA flux, but had no effect on bacterial translocation in gliadin-treated mice. In addition, changes in mucosal DC marker distribution such as increased (p < 0.05) trans-epithelial CD103(+) cells and reduction (p < 0.05) of CD11c immunostaining were detected in gliadin-treated mice. Moreover, changes in DC markers and TLR-2 or 4 immunophenotypes were not associated.
Pharmacological restoration of paracellular permeability was not sufficient to prevent bacterial translocation in gluten-sensitive mice. We hypothesize that transcellular mechanisms involving CD103(+)DC and CD11c(+)DC may explain in gluten-sensitive HCD4/HLA-DQ8 transgenic mice the sustained increased bacterial translocation observed in the absence of a significant inflammatory response.

Environmental impacts of algae-derived biodiesel and bioelectricity for transportation.Algae are a widely touted source of bioenergy with high yields, appreciable lipid contents, and an ability to be cultivated on marginal land without directly competing with food crops. Nevertheless, recent work has suggested that large-scale deployment of algae bioenergy systems could have unexpectedly high environmental burdens. In this study, a "well-to-wheel" life cycle assessment was undertaken to evaluate algae's potential use as a transportation energy source for passenger vehicles. Four algae conversion pathways resulting in combinations of bioelectricity and biodiesel were assessed for several relevant nutrient procurement scenarios. Results suggest that algae-to-energy systems can be either net energy positive or negative depending on the specific combination of cultivation and conversion processes used. Conversion pathways involving direct combustion for bioelectricity production generally outperformed systems involving anaerobic digestion and biodiesel production, and they were found to generate four and fifteen times as many vehicle kilometers traveled (VKT) per hectare as switchgrass or canola, respectively. Despite this, algae systems exhibited mixed performance for environmental impacts (energy use, water use, and greenhouse gas emissions) on a "per km" basis relative to the benchmark crops. This suggests that both cultivation and conversion processes must be carefully considered to ensure the environmental viability of algae-to-energy processes.

Net energy production associated with pathogen inactivation during mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge.The potential for anaerobic digester energy production must be balanced with the sustainability of reusing the resultant biosolids for land application. Mesophilic, thermophilic, temperature-phased, and high temperature (60 or 70 °C) batch pre-treatment digester configurations have been systematically evaluated for net energy production and pathogen inactivation potential. Energy input requirements and net energy production were modeled for each digester scheme. First-order inactivation rate coefficients for Escherichia coli, Enterococcus faecalis and bacteriophage MS-2 were measured at each digester temperature and full-scale pathogen inactivation performance was estimated for each indicator organism and each digester configuration. Inactivation rates were found to increase dramatically at temperatures above 55 °C. Modeling full-scale performance using retention times based on U.S. EPA time and temperature constraints predicts a 1-2 log inactivation in mesophilic treatment, and a 2-5 log inactivation in 50-55 °C thermophilic and temperature-phased treatments. Incorporating a 60 or 70 °C batch pre-treatment phase resulted in dramatically higher potency, achieving MS-2 inactivation of 14 and 16 logs respectively, and complete inactivation (over 100 log reduction) of E. coli and E. faecalis. For temperatures less than 70 °C, viability staining of thermally-treated E. coli showed significantly reduced inactivation relative to standard culture enumeration. Due to shorter residence times in thermophilic reactors, the net energy production for all digesters was similar (less than 20% difference) with the 60 or 70 °C batch treatment configurations producing the most net energy and the mesophilic treatment producing the least. Incorporating a 60 or 70 °C pre-treatment phase can dramatically increase pathogen inactivation performance without decreasing net energy capture from anaerobic digestion. Energy consumption is not a significant barrier against improving the pathogen quality of biosolids.

Contribution of anaerobic digesters to emissions mitigation and electricity generation under U.S. climate policy.Livestock husbandry in the U.S. significantly contributes to many environmental problems, including the release of methane, a potent greenhouse gas (GHG). Anaerobic digesters (ADs) break down organic wastes using bacteria that produce methane, which can be collected and combusted to generate electricity. ADs also reduce odors and pathogens that are common with manure storage and the digested manure can be used as a fertilizer. There are relatively few ADs in the U.S., mainly due to their high capital costs. We use the MIT Emissions Prediction and Policy Analysis (EPPA) model to test the effects of a representative U.S. climate stabilization policy on the adoption of ADs which sell electricity and generate methane mitigation credits. Under such policy, ADs become competitive at producing electricity in 2025, when they receive methane reduction credits and electricity from fossil fuels becomes more expensive. We find that ADs have the potential to generate 5.5% of U.S. electricity.

A new dynamic model for bioavailability and cometabolism of micropollutants during anaerobic digestion.Organic micropollutants (OMPs) are present in wastewater and sludge. Their possible impact to the environment contributes to their increasing scientific and social interest. Anaerobic digestion has been shown as a potential biological process for removal of these compounds. An accurate description of OMP distribution in the environmental system can be used to better understand which compartment is used for degradation and to improve their depletion in conventional wastewater treatment technologies. In this work, we proposed a dynamical model with a four-compartment distribution to describe the Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) fate during anaerobic digestion. The model is calibrated and validated using experimental data obtained from two continuous reactors fed with primary and secondary sludge operated under mesophilic conditions. A non-linear least square method was used to optimize the model parameters. The resulted model is in accordance with the experimental data. The PAH biodegradation rate is well modeled when considering the aqueous fraction (including free and sorbed to dissolved/colloidal matter PAHs) as the bioavailable compartment. It was also demonstrated in the simulations that the PAHs biodegradation is linked to a mechanism of cometabolism. The model proposed is potentially useful to better understand the micropollutant distribution, predict the fate of PAHs under anaerobic condition and help to optimize the operation process for their depletion.

Kinetic modelling and microbial community assessment of anaerobic biphasic fixed film bioreactor treating distillery spent wash.Anaerobic digestion, microbial community structure and kinetics were studied in a biphasic continuously fed, upflow anaerobic fixed film reactor treating high strength distillery wastewater. Treatment efficiency of the bioreactor was investigated at different hydraulic retention times (HRT) and organic loading rates (OLR 5-20 kg COD m⁻³ d⁻¹). Applying the modified Stover-Kincannon model to the reactor, the maximum removal rate constant (U(max)) and saturation value constant (K(B)) were found to be 2 kg m⁻³ d⁻¹ and 1.69 kg m⁻³ d⁻¹ respectively. Bacterial community structures of acidogenic and methanogenic reactors were assessed using culture-independent analyses. Sequencing of 16S rRNA genes exhibited a total of 123 distinct operational taxonomic units (OTUs) comprising 49 from acidogenic reactor and 74 (28 of eubacteria and 46 of archaea) from methanogenic reactor. The findings reveal the role of Lactobacillus sp. (Firmicutes) as dominant acid producing organisms in acidogenic reactor and Methanoculleus sp. (Euryarchaeotes) as foremost methanogens in methanogenic reactor.

Partial nitrification and nutrient removal in intermittently aerated sequencing batch reactors treating separated digestate liquid after anaerobic digestion of pig manure.The performance of an intermittently aerated sequencing batch reactor (IASBR) technology was investigated in achieving partial nitrification, organic matter removal and nitrogen removal from separated digestate liquid after anaerobic digestion of pig manure. The wastewater had chemical oxygen demand (COD) concentrations of 11,540 ± 860 mg/L, 5-day biochemical oxygen demand (BOD(5)) concentrations of 2,900 ± 200 mg/L and total nitrogen (TN) concentrations of 4,041 ± 59 mg/L, with low COD:N ratios (2.9) and BOD(5):COD ratios (0.25). Synthetic wastewater, simulating the separated digestate liquid with similar COD and nitrogen concentrations but BOD(5) of 11,500 ± 100 mg/L, was also treated using the IASBR technology. At a mean organic loading rate of 1.15 kg COD/(m(3) d) and a nitrogen loading rate of 0.38 kg N/(m(3) d), the COD removal efficiency was 89.8% in the IASBR (IASBR-1) treating digestate liquid and 99% in the IASBR (IASBR-2) treating synthetic wastewater. The IASBR-1 effluent COD was mainly due to inert organic matter and can be further reduced to less than 40 mg/L through coagulation. The partial nitrification efficiency of 71-79% was achieved in the two IASBRs and one cause for the stable long-term partial nitrification was the intermittent aeration strategy. Nitrogen removal efficiencies were 76.5 and 97% in IASBR-1 and IASBR-2, respectively. The high nitrogen removal efficiencies show that the IASBR technology is a promising technology for nitrogen removal from low COD:N ratio wastewaters. The nitrogen balance analysis shows that 59.4 and 74.3% of nitrogen removed was via heterotrophic denitrification in the non-aeration periods in IASBR-1 and IASBR-2, respectively.

Kinetics of forced aerated biodegradation of digested sewage sludge-reed mixtures at different temperatures.This work presents a kinetic analysis of the aerobic biodegradation of anaerobically digested sewage sludge and dried reed mixtures at different temperatures. Batch experiments were conducted in laboratory-scale reactors with temperature (T) control and forced aeration of the solid mixture. The biowaste mixture was treated at four different temperatures: 25, 40, 50 and 60 °C, with moisture controlled and samples taken weekly for carbon (C) and volatile solids (VS) measurements. The duration of experiments was either 90 d (at 25 °C) or 60 d (at 40, 50 and 60 °C). Two different kinetic models were used to fit the carbon mineralisation curves: the 2C model, which considers two organic fractions (biodegradable and non-biodegradable) and the 3C model, which considers three fractions (easily biodegradable, slowly biodegradable and non-biodegradable). In both cases, the kinetic rate constants were calculated by mathematical fitting and were compared with previously reported values. The temperature influence on the rate constants was studied for both models using a T-dependent equation. The calculated kinetic rate constants were in agreement with previously published values, and good fitting of the experimental data was obtained with both models. Similar rate constant values were obtained for mineralisation of the biodegradable fraction (2C model) and the easily biodegradable fraction (3C model). The rate constants for the slowly biodegradable fraction (3C model) were much lower. A good correlation between rate constants and T was observed. Different optimum temperature values were obtained for each rate constant depending on which carbon fraction was degraded. The T-dependent rate constant values obtained could be used for modelling the C mineralisation of real variable-temperature composting processes.

Study on a fixed zeolite bioreactor for anaerobic digestion of ammonium-rich swine wastes.In this study, a fixed zeolite bioreactor was developed for the anaerobic digestion of ammonium-rich swine wastes (NH(4)(+)-N=3770 mg/l). To investigate the performance of the reactor, a sunken zeolite bioreactor and a bioreactor without zeolite were used as controls. The new bioreactor exhibited good performance, with startup time on the 14th day and methane production of 178.5 ml/g-VS during all 32 days of the experiment at 35°C. This bioreactor significantly shortened startup time, enhanced methane gas yield more than twofold and made COD removal more efficient than under the other models. Furthermore, it reduced the inhibition of high ammonium concentration during the anaerobic digestion of ammonium-rich swine wastes via effective ammonium removal and the immobilisation of microorganisms. Because of its simple structure and good performance, the fixed zeolite bioreactor can be recommended for future use.

Eliminating methanogenic activity in hydrogen reactor to improve biogas production in a two-stage anaerobic digestion process co-digesting municipal food waste and sewage sludge.Laboratory scale two-stage anaerobic digestion process model was operated for 280 days to investigate the feasibility to produce both hydrogen and methane from a mixture feedstock (1:1 (v/v)) of municipal food waste and sewage sludge. The maximum hydrogen and methane yields obtained in the two stages were 0.93 and 9.5 mL/mL feedstock. To eliminate methanogenic activity and obtain substantial hydrogen production in the hydrogen reactor, both feedstock and mixed liquor required treatment. The heat treatment (100°C, 10 min) for feedstock and a periodical treatment (every 2-5 weeks, either heating, removal of biomass particles or flushing with air) for mixed liquor were effective in different extent. The methane production in the second stage was significantly improved by the hydrogen production in the first stage. The maximum methane production obtained in the period of high hydrogen production was more than 2-fold of that observed in the low hydrogen production period.

Investigation into drug release from colon-specific azoreductase-activated steroid prodrugs using in-vitro models.The aim of this study was to investigate drug release from a double steroid prodrug, OPN501, which incorporates a phenylpropionate linker, and its phenylacetate analogue. The prodrugs, which were designed to deliver prednisolone to the colon for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, are based on a novel design that requires sequential azoreductase activity and cyclization of an amino ester to trigger drug release. We sought to explain the divergent effects of the two compounds in anti-inflammatory models and to justify the selection of OPN-501 for clinical development.
The compounds were incubated in mouse colonic contents (10%) fermented in brain heart infusion under anaerobic conditions. The disappearance of the prodrugs and release of prednisolone was monitored by HPLC. We then developed a method for assessment of prodrug activation using suspensions of Clostridium perfringens, an anaerobe from the human colon. The cyclization of the compounds was studied in various media, assessing the influence of pH and bulk solvent polarity on cyclization rate using HPLC and NMR.
The prodrugs were activated via multiple pathways releasing prednisolone in mouse colonic ferment. The compounds released prednisolone by reduction-cyclization in C perfringens suspension. The active OPN-501 generated a stoichiometric amount of prednisolone following azoreductase activation, whereas its analogue did not. The pH rate profile for the cyclization of the amino intermediates of the two compounds revealed significant differences in rate at pH values relevant to the inflamed colon, which explain in part the different amounts of drug produced.
The steroid prodrug OPN-501 has optimal drug release characteristics for colon targeting because of a kinetic advantage of a six-membered ring formation in the aminolysis reactions of anilides. The results are relevant to the development of OPN-501 but also to cyclization strategies in prodrug design especially for colon targeting.

Fusobacterium nucleatum infection of colonic cells stimulates MUC2 mucin and tumor necrosis factor alpha.The etiology of inflammatory bowel disease is not completely known, but it is influenced by the presence of normal gut microflora as well as yet-unrecognized pathogens. The anaerobic, Gram-negative bacterial species Fusobacterium nucleatum is a common resident of the human mouth and gut and varies in its pathogenic potential. In this study, we demonstrate that highly invasive F. nucleatum isolates derived from the inflamed guts of Crohn's disease patients evoked significantly greater MUC2 and tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-α) gene expression than minimally invasive strains isolated from the noninflamed gut in human colonic epithelial cells and in a rat ligated colonic loop model of infection. Only live F. nucleatum induced mucin secretion and TNF-α expression in direct contact with and/or during invasion of colonic cells. In rat colons, mucin secretion was augmented in response to a highly invasive F. nucleatum isolate but was unaffected by treatment with a minimally invasive strain. Taken together, these studies reveal that F. nucleatum may represent a challenging pathogen in the etiology of gut inflammatory diseases and highlight the importance of different pathotypes of candidate bacterial species in disease pathogenesis.

Modeling anaerobic digestion of microalgae using ADM1.The coupling between a microalgal pond and an anaerobic digester is a promising alternative for sustainable energy production by transforming carbon dioxide into methane using solar energy. In this paper, we demonstrate the ability of the original ADM1 model and a modified version (based on Contois kinetics for the hydrolysis steps) to represent microalgae anaerobic digestion. Simulations were compared to experimental data of an anaerobic digester fed with Chlorella vulgaris. The modified ADM1 fits adequately the data for the considered 140 day experiment encompassing a variety of influent load and flow rates. It turns out to be a reliable predictive tool for optimising the coupling of microalgae with anaerobic digestion processes.

Hypoxia and metabolic factors that influence inflammatory bowel disease pathogenesis.The gastrointestinal epithelium is anatomically positioned to provide a selective barrier between the anaerobic lumen and lamina propria, which has a high rate of metabolism. Supported by a complex vasculature, this important barrier is affected by reduced blood flow and resultant tissue hypoxia, particularly during the severe metabolic shifts associated with active inflammation in individuals with inflammatory bowel disease. Activation of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) under these conditions promotes resolution of inflammation in mouse models of disease. Protective influences of HIF are attributed, in part, to the complex regulation of barrier protection with the intestinal mucosa. Reagents that activate HIF, via inhibition of the prolyl hydroxylase enzymes, might be developed to induce hypoxia-mediated resolution in patients with intestinal mucosal inflammatory disease.

Removal of phosphate from aqueous solution by biochar derived from anaerobically digested sugar beet tailings.Biochar converted from agricultural residues or other carbon-rich wastes may provide new methods and materials for environmental management, particularly with respect to carbon sequestration and contaminant remediation. In this study, laboratory experiments were conducted to investigate the removal of phosphate from aqueous solution by biochar derived from anaerobically digested sugar beet tailings (DSTC). Batch adsorption kinetic and equilibrium isotherm experiments and post-adsorption characterizations using SEM-EDS, XRD, and FTIR suggested that colloidal and nano-sized MgO (periclase) particles on the biochar surface were the main adsorption sites for aqueous phosphate. Batch adsorption experiments also showed that both initial solution pH and coexisting anions could affect the adsorption of phosphate onto the DSTC biochar. Of the mathematical models used to describe the adsorption kinetics of phosphate removal by the biochar, the Ritchie N_th-order (N=1.14) model showed the best fit. Two heterogeneous isotherm models (Freundlich and Langmuir-Freundlich) fitted the experimental isotherm of phosphate adsorption onto the biochar better than the Langmuir adsorption model. Our results suggest that biochar converted from anaerobically digested sugar beet tailings is a promising alternative adsorbent, which can be used to reclaim phosphate from water or reduce phosphate leaching from fertilized soils. In addition, there is no need to regenerate the exhausted biochar because the phosphate-laden biochar contains abundance of valuable nutrients, which may be used as a slow-release fertilizer to enhance soil fertility and to sequester carbon.

Metabolism of L-selenomethionine and selenite by probiotic bacteria: in vitro and in vivo studies.Since selenium supplements have been shown to undergo biotransformation in the gut, probiotic treatment in combination with selenium supplements may change selenium disposition. We investigated the metabolism of L-selenomethionine (SeMet) and selenite by probiotic bacteria in vitro and the disposition of selenium after probiotic treatment followed by oral dosing with SeMet and selenite in rats. When SeMet was incubated anaerobically with individual antibiotic-resistant probiotic strains (Streptococcus salivarius K12, Lactobacillus rhamnosus 67B, Lactobacillus acidophilus L10, and Bifidobacterium lactis LAFTI® B94) at 37°C for 24 h, 11-18% was metabolized with 44-80% of SeMet lost being converted to dimethyldiselenide (DMDSe) and dimethylselenide (DMSe). In similar incubations with selenite, metabolism was more extensive (26-100%) particularly by the lactobacilli with 0-4.8% of selenite lost being converted to DMSe and DMDSe accompanied by the formation of elemental selenium. Four groups of rats (n = 5/group) received a single oral dose of either SeMet or selenite (2 mg selenium/kg) at the time of the last dose of a probiotic mixture or its vehicle (lyoprotectant mixture used to maintain cell viability) administered every 12 h for 3 days. Another three groups of rats (n = 3/group) received a single oral dose of saline or SeMet or selenite at the same dose (untreated rats). Serum selenium concentrations over the subsequent 24 h were not significantly different between probiotic and vehicle treated rats but appeared to be more sustained (SeMet) or higher (selenite) than in the corresponding groups of untreated rats. Probiotic treated rats given SeMet also had selenium concentrations at 24 h that were significantly higher in liver and lower in kidney than untreated rats given SeMet. Thus, treatment with probiotics followed by SeMet significantly affects tissue levels of selenium.

Financial appraisal of wet mesophilic AD technology as a renewable energy and waste management technology.Anaerobic digestion (AD) has the potential to support diversion of organic waste from landfill and increase renewable energy production. However, diffusion of this technology has been uneven, with countries such as Germany and Sweden taking the lead, but limited diffusion in other countries such as the UK. In this context, this study explores the financial viability of AD in the UK to offer reasons why it has not been more widely used. This paper presents a model that calculates the Internal Rate of Return (IRR) on a twenty year investment in a 30,000 tonnes per annum wet mesophilic AD plant in the UK for the treatment of source separated organic waste, which is judged to be a suitable technology for the UK climate. The model evaluates the financial significance of the different alternative energy outputs from this AD plant and the resulting economic subsidies paid for renewable energy. Results show that renewable electricity and renewable heat sales supported by renewable electricity and renewable heat tariffs generates the greatest IRR (31.26%). All other uses of biogas generate an IRR in excess of 15%, and are judged to be a financially viable investment. Sensitivity analysis highlights the financial significance of: economic incentive payments and a waste management gate fee; and demonstrates that the fate of the digestate by-product is a source of financial uncertainty for AD investors.

[Establishment of model and standard operation procedure for biotransformation of chemical constituents of traditional Chinese medicine by human intestinal bacteria].To establish human intestinal bacteria biotransformation model and the standard operation procedure for studying and assessing intestinal biotransformation of chemical constituents of traditional Chinese medicine (TCM).
The chemical constituent of TCM was incubated together with human intestinal flora or isolated strain, or their secretory enzymes at anaerobic environment and 37 degrees C. The biotransformation products were extracted by solvent extraction methods, separated by column chromatographic methods, and identified by spectroscopic analysis. The biotransformation mechanisms would be deduced by comparison of structural characteristics of the biotransformation products and the parent drug and/or compound, as well as the enzyme(s)-catalysed bioreactions.
The established biotransformation model of human intestinal bacteria is facile for operation and has the capability of converting the chemical constituent of traditional Chinese medicine. The growing cells transformation method, the resting cells transformation method or enzyme(s)-catalysed transformation method can all be selected as the transformation approach.
The established human intestinal bacteria biotransformation model can be used to study the intestinal biotransformation of orally administrated chemical constituents of TCM and their biotransformation mechanism.

Microbial ethanol production: experimental study and multivariate evaluation.Ethanol can be produced from all the postmortem available substrates, though with higher rates and yields from carbohydrates, during the early stages of putrefaction. The so-called higher alcohols (1-propanol, isobutanol, 2-methyl-1-butanol and 3-methyl-2-butanol) and 1-butanol could be produced, from all the available postmortem substrates. However, a quantitative relationship between the produced ethanol and the potentially produced other alcohols is still missing. The objective of this study was the development of a simple, mathematical model which could be able to approximate the microbial produced ethanol in correlation with other produced alcohols. The selected bacterial species included two Gram+ spore-forming anaerobic bacteria and two (one Gram+ one Gram-) aerobic/facultative anaerobic bacteria, all being common commensals of the digestive tract and common colonizers of the corpse. The selected bacterial strains, Escherichia coli, Clostridium perfrigens, Clostridium sporogenes and Enterococcus faecalis, were cultured separately at 25 °C, for 30 days, under controlled anaerobic conditions. The produced ethanol and the previously referred alcohols were determined in the culture medium in 24h intervals. Using partial least squares (PLS) regression, the estimation of the relevance score for the available descriptors established the statistical model to assess the ethanol concentration produced by each studied microbe. E. coli, C. perfrigens, and C. sporogenes produced different patterns of ethanol and other alcohols, while E. faecalis produced negligible amounts of ethanol and higher alcohols. In constructing the mathematical models to predict the produced ethanol, 1-propanol, 1-butanol, and isobutanol were significant for C. perfrigens and C. sporogenes, while 1-butanol, 1-propanol, and methyl-butanol were significant for E. coli. The applicability of these models was tested in microbial, anaerobic cultures of normal human blood and plasma at 25 °C. The results indicate that factors such as the type of microbe species, the glucose content and the medium composition apparently affect the procedure of microbial ethanol, and other alcohols production. However, the models can be applied with acceptable accuracy and they show potential for application in real postmortem cases.

Transforming growth factor-beta type 1 receptor (ALK5) and Smad proteins mediate TIMP-1 and collagen synthesis in experimental intestinal fibrosis.Transforming growth factor β (TGF-β) is known to play a key role in intestinal fibrosis; however, the underlying mechanisms are not well understood. TGF-β signal transduction is through TGF-β receptors, including the TGF-β type 1 receptor. Most cell types contain a TGF-β type 1 receptor form known as activin receptor-like kinase 5 (ALK5), which propagates the signal to the nucleus through the phosphorylation of Smad2 and Smad3 proteins. Therefore, we assessed the effect of the disruption of TGF-β/ALK5/Smad signalling by an ALK5 inhibitor (SD-208) in two experimental animal models of intestinal fibrosis: anaerobic bacteria- and trinitrobenzensulphonic acid-induced colitis. In addition, isolated myofibroblasts were pretreated with SD-208 and exposed to recombinant TGF-β1. Finally, myofibroblasts were transfected with ALK5, Smad2, and Smad3-specific siRNA. Up-regulation of ALK5 and TIMP-1, phosphorylation of Smad2 and Smad3 proteins, and increased intestinal wall collagen deposition were found in both experimental animal models. These effects were decreased by SD-208. TGF-β1 treatment also induced phosphorylation of Smad2 and Smad3 and up-regulation of ALK5 protein, TIMP-1, and α2 type 1 collagen gene expression in isolated myofibroblasts. Again these effects were inhibited by SD-208. Also, ALK5, Smad2, and Smad3 siRNA abolished the induction of TIMP-1 and α2 type 1 collagen. Our findings provide evidence that the TGF-β/ALK5/Smad pathway participates in the pathogenesis of experimental intestinal fibrosis. These data show promise for the development of an effective therapeutic intervention in this condition.

Transport phenomena of microbial flora in the small intestine with peristalsis.The gastrointestinal tract of humans is colonized by indigenous prokaryotic and eukaryotic microbial cells that form a complex ecological system called microbial flora. Although the microbial flora has diverse functions, its homeostasis inside the gastrointestinal tract is still largely unknown. Therefore, creating a model for investigating microbial flora in the gastrointestinal tract is important. In this study, we developed a novel numerical model to explore the transport phenomena of microbial flora in the small intestine. By simultaneously solving the flow field generated by peristalsis, the concentrations of oxygen and nutrient, and the densities of moderate anaerobes and aerobes, the effects of fluid mechanics on the transport phenomena of microbial flora are discussed. The results clearly illustrated that fluid mechanics have considerable influence not only on the bacterial population, but also on the concentration distributions of oxygen and nutrient. Especially, the flow field enhances the radial variation of the concentration fields. We also show scaling arguments for bacterial growth and oxygen consumption, which capture the main features of the results. Additionally, we investigated the transport phenomena of microbial flora in a long tube with 40 constrictions. The results showed a high growth rate of aerobes in the upstream side and a high growth rate of anaerobes in the downstream side, which qualitatively agrees with experimental observations of human intestines. These new findings provide the fundamental basis for a better understanding of the transport phenomena of microbial flora in the intestine.

Effect of antibiotic treatment on establishment and elimination of intestinal colonization by KPC-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae in mice.An understanding of the impact of antibiotics on the intestinal reservoir of KPC carbapenemase-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae (KPC-Kp) is important to prevent its emergence. We used a mouse model to examine the effect of antibiotic treatment on the establishment and elimination of intestinal colonization with KPC-Kp. Mice (10 per group) received subcutaneous antibiotics daily for 8 days. On day 3 of treatment, 10(3) CFU of KPC-Kp was given orogastrically, and concentrations of KPC-Kp in stool were monitored. Additional experiments assessed the effects of antibiotic treatment on concentrations of total anaerobes and Bacteroides spp. in stool and the efficacy of orogastric gentamicin and polymyxin E in suppressing KPC-Kp colonization. Of four antibiotics with minimal activity against the KPC-Kp test strain (MIC ≥ 16 μg/ml), those that suppressed total anaerobes and bacteroides (i.e., clindamycin and piperacillin-tazobactam) promoted colonization by KPC-Kp (P < 0.001), whereas agents that did not suppress total anaerobes or bacteroides (i.e., ciprofloxacin and cefepime) did not (P = 0.35). Of two agents with moderate activity against the KPC-Kp test strain, ertapenem (MIC, 4 μg/ml) did not promote colonization by KPC-Kp, whereas tigecycline (MIC, 3 μg/ml) did (P < 0.001), despite not reducing levels of total anaerobes or bacteroides. Orogastric treatment with gentamicin and polymyxin E suppressed KPC-Kp to undetectable levels in the majority of mice. These data suggest that antibiotics that disturb the intestinal anaerobic microflora and lack significant activity against KPC-Kp promote colonization by this organism. The administration of nonabsorbed oral antibiotics may be an effective strategy to suppress colonization with KPC-Kp.

Electricity production in membrane-less microbial fuel cell fed with livestock organic solid waste.Two different MFC configurations designed for handling solid wastes as a feedstock were evaluated in batch mode: a single compartment combined membrane-electrodes (SCME) design; and a twin-compartment brush-type anode electrodes (TBE) design (reversed T-shape MFC with two-air cathode) without a proton exchange membrane (PEM). Cattle manure was tested as a model livestock organic solid waste feedstock. Under steady conditions, voltage of 0.38 V was recorded with an external resistance of 470Ω. When digested anaerobic sludge was used as the seed in the SCME design, a maximum power density of 36.6 mW/m(2) was recorded. When hydrogen-generating bacteria (HGB) were used as the seed used in the TBE design, a higher power density of 67 mW/m(2) was recorded.

Simulating the degradation of odor precursors in primary and waste-activated sludge during anaerobic digestion.Degradation of known odor precursors in sludge during anaerobic digestion was systematically studied and simulated using the Anaerobic Digestion Model Number 1 (ADM1). The degradation of various protein fractions (particulate, soluble, and bound), volatile fatty acids (VFAs), lipids, and amino acids of primary sludge (PS) and waste-activated sludge (WAS) were monitored during anaerobic digestion. The degradation kinetic constants of the odor precursors namely, protein, lipid, and VFAs were determined. Relationships between degradations of protein fractions and volatile suspended solid were established; a strong relationship between bound protein, a major odor precursor, and volatile suspended solid degradation was found. No statistically significant difference in bound protein reduction was observed between PS and WAS. ADM1 was successfully used to simulate the lab scale continuous anaerobic digestion; model results with optimized parameters showed good agreement with the experimental data for methane production and several other sludge parameters including odor precursors such as lipids, VFAs, and proteins.

Modelling the effects of pH on tongue biofilm using a sorbarod biofilm perfusion system.The pH of the tongue biofilm is likely to influence microbial composition and ecology with consequent effects on the metabolic activities and generation of volatile sulfur compounds (VSC) and other malodour gasses. The aim of this study was to identify the effects of pH on the development of biofilms and hydrogen sulfide production using an in vitro tongue-derived biofilm model. Community level physiological profiling (CLPP) was employed to examine the influence of pH on the collective metabolic fingerprint of each tongue-derived biofilm. A sorbarod perfusion system (n = 6 sorbarods) was inoculated from a single suspension of tongue scrape sample and mixed community tongue-derived biofilms were grown at pH 5.5, 6.0, 6.5, 7.0 7.5 and 8.0. Biofilms were perfused with medium for 120 h and gas phase samples (n = 4 per biofilm) removed and analysed with a portable sulfide gas chromatograph before being sacrificed into 10 ml sterile PBS-diluent and cells suspended by vortex mixing. Further ten-fold dilutions were made (down to 10(-7)) and dilutions plated out onto selective (fastidious anaerobic agar (FAA) + 0.0025% vancomycin) and non-selective (FAA) media for enumeration of strict and facultative anaerobes respectively. Biofilm suspensions were also mixed with Biolog inoculation fluid and distributed into 96 wells of Biolog AN plates for CLPP. Tongue biofilms developed at pH 7.5 produced significant (p < 0.05) concentrations of H(2)S (≈52.2 ± SEM 5.6 µg H(2)S per ml biofilm gas phase) followed by tongue biofilm developed at pH 7.0 and 8.0 (≈43.2 ± SEM 3.5 and ≈ 39.6 ± SEM 7.3 µg H(2)S per ml biofilm gas phase respectively). Tongue biofilm developed at pH 6.0 and 6.5 produced approximately 21.5 ± SEM 2.3 and 37.1 ± SEM 1.7 µg H(2)S per ml biofilm gas phase respectively and tongue biofilm developed at pH 5.5 produced approximately 0.19 ± SEM 0.09 µg H(2)S per ml biofilm gas phase. Highest numbers of strict and facultative anaerobes were recovered from biofilms at pH 6.5 (1.10 × 10(12) and 2.07 × 10(12) cfu ml(-1) respectively), with a reduced number recovered from pH values above and below this range. CLPP and similarity index revealed biofilms at pH 6.5 and 7.0 most similar (S(j) = 78%) and most diverse in terms of metabolic activity. The biofilm at pH 5.5 was the least related to all others and least diverse. The sorbarod perfusion system, in conjunction with H(2)S analysis and CLPP, enables some of the physiological and ecological effects of pH at a local level within the biofilm on H(2)S production to be identified.

Decolourization of anaerobically digested and polyaluminium chloride treated distillery spentwash in a fungal stirred tank aerobic reactor.Decolourization of anaerobically digested and polyaluminium chloride treated distillery spentwash was studied in a fungal stirred tank aerobic reactor without dilution of wastewater. Aspergillus niger isolate IITB-V8 was used as the fungal inoculum. The main objectives of the study were to optimize the stirrer speed for achieving maximum decolourization and to determine the kinetic parameters. A mathematical model was developed to describe the batch culture kinetics. Volumetric oxygen transfer coefficient (k (L) a) was obtained using dynamic method. The maximum specific growth rate and growth yield of fungus were determined using Logistic equation and using Luedeking-Piret equation. 150 rpm was found to be optimum stirrer speed for overall decolourization of 87%. At the optimum stirrer speed, volumetric oxygen transfer coefficient (k (L) a) was 0.4957 min(-1) and the maximum specific growth rate of fungus was 0.224 h(-1). The values of yield coefficient (Y ( x/s)) and maintenance coefficient (m (s)) were found to be 0.48 g cells (g substrate)(-1) and 0.015 g substrate (g cells)(-1) h(-1).

Performance parameter prediction for sewage sludge digesters using reflectance FT-NIR spectroscopy.This study investigates the use of Fourier transform near infrared (FT-NIR) spectroscopy combined with principle components analysis (PCA) and partial least squares regression (PLS-R) as part of a possible process monitoring system for sewage sludge anaerobic digesters. The ability of FT-NIR with PCA to distinguish between different stages of the AD process was investigated, it was found that waste activated sludge (WAS), primary, feed (Primary:WAS 70:30) and digested sludge were distinguishable from each other using this technique. PLS-R was used successfully to track differing proportions of primary:WAS in feedstocks of 5% total solids (Coefficient of Efficiency (CE) = 0.93). The study also looked at the ability of reflectance mode NIR spectroscopy to track process parameters important for stability. Temperature and organic loading rate variations were employed to stress the digesters. Predictive models were produced for volatile fatty acids (VFA), bicarbonate alkalinity (BA) and total and volatile solids (TS and VS) and independently validated for each digester. The models were able to track the relevant process parameters: TS (CE = 0.75), VS (CE = 0.75), BA (CE = 0.71), and VFA (CE = 0.69). This technique could be used to improve the performance of sewage sludge anaerobic digesters.

Development of novel oral formulations prepared via hot melt extrusion for targeted delivery of photosensitizer to the colon.Colon-residing bacteria, such as vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecalis and Bacteroides fragilis, can cause a range of serious clinical infections. Photodynamic antimicrobial chemotherapy (PACT) may be a novel treatment option for these multidrug resistant organisms. The aim of this study was to formulate a Eudragit®-based drug delivery system, via hot melt extrusion (HME), for targeting colonic release of photosensitizer. The susceptibility of E. faecalis and B. fragilis to PACT mediated by methylene blue (MB), meso-tetra(N-methyl-4-pyridyl)porphine tetra-tosylate (TMP), or 5-aminolevulinic acid hexyl-ester (h-ALA) was determined, with tetrachlorodecaoxide (TCDO), an oxygen-releasing compound, added in some studies. Results show that, for MB, an average of 30% of the total drug load was released over a 6-h period. For TMP and h-ALA, these values were 50% and 16% respectively. No drug was released in the acidic media. Levels of E. faecalis and B. fragilis were reduced by up to 4.67 and 7.73 logs, respectively, on PACT exposure under anaerobic conditions, with increased kill associated with TCDO. With these formulations, photosensitizer release could potentially be targeted to the colon, and colon-residing pathogens killed by PACT. TCDO could be used in vivo to generate oxygen, which could significantly impact on the success of PACT in the clinic.

Codigestion of solid wastes: a review of its uses and perspectives including modeling.The last two years have witnessed a dramatic increase in the number of papers published on the subject of codigestion, highlighting the relevance of this topic within anaerobic digestion research. Consequently, it seems appropriate to undertake a review of codigestion practices starting from the late 1970s, when the first papers related to this concept were published, and continuing to the present day, demonstrating the exponential growth in the interest shown in this approach in recent years. Following a general analysis of the situation, state-of-the-art codigestion is described, focusing on the two most important areas as regards publication: codigestion involving sewage sludge and the organic fraction of municipal solid waste (including a review of the secondary advantages for wastewater treatment plant related to biological nutrient removal), and codigestion in the agricultural sector, that is, including agricultural - farm wastes, and energy crops. Within these areas, a large number of oversized digesters appear which can be used to codigest other substrates, resulting in economic and environmental advantages. Although the situation may be changing, there is still a need for good examples on an industrial scale, particularly with regard to wastewater treatment plants, in order to extend this beneficial practice. In the last section, a detailed analysis of papers addressing the important aspect of modelisation is included. This analysis includes the first codigestion models to be developed as well as recent applications of the standardised anaerobic digestion model ADM1 to codigestion. (This review includes studies ranging from laboratory to industrial scale.).

Greenhouse gas emission reductions from domestic anaerobic digesters linked with sustainable sanitation in rural China.Anaerobic digesters provide clean, renewable energy (biogas) by converting organic waste to methane, and are a key part of China's comprehensive rural energy plan. Here, experimental and modeling results are used to quantify the net greenhouse gas (GHG) reduction from substituting a household anaerobic digester for traditional energy sources in Sichuan, China. Tunable diode laser absorption spectroscopy and radial plume mapping were used to estimate the mass flux of fugitive methane emissions from active digesters. Using household energy budgets, the net improvement in GHG emissions associated with biogas installation was estimated using global warming commitment (GWC) as a consolidated measure of the warming effects of GHG emissions from cooking. In all scenarios biogas households had lower GWC than nonbiogas households, by as much as 54%. Even biogas households with methane leakage exhibited lower GWC than nonbiogas households, by as much as 48%. Based only on the averted GHG emissions over 10 years, the monetary value of a biogas installation was conservatively estimated at US$28.30 ($16.07 ton(-1) CO(2)-eq), which is available to partly offset construction costs. The interaction of biogas installation programs with policies supporting improved stoves, renewable harvesting of biomass, and energy interventions with substantial health cobenefits are discussed.

An integrated physical and biological model for anaerobic lagoons.A computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model that integrates physical and biological processes for anaerobic lagoons is presented. In the model development, turbulence is represented using a transition k-ω model, heat conduction and solar radiation are included in the thermal model, biological oxygen demand (BOD) reduction is characterized by first-order kinetics, and methane yield rate is expressed as a linear function of temperature. A test of the model applicability is conducted in a covered lagoon digester operated under tropical climate conditions. The commercial CFD software, ANSYS-Fluent, is employed to solve the integrated model. The simulation procedures include solving fluid flow and heat transfer, predicting local resident time based on the converged flow fields, and calculating the BOD reduction and methane production. The simulated results show that monthly methane production varies insignificantly, but the time to achieve a 99% BOD reduction in January is much longer than that in July.

Maintenance affects the stability of a two-tiered microbial 'food chain'?Microbial 'food chains' are fundamentally different from canonical food chains in the sense that the waste products of the organisms on one trophic level are consumed by organisms of the next trophic level rather than the organisms themselves. In the present paper we introduce a generalised model of a two-tiered microbial 'food chain' with feedback inhibition, after applying an appropriate dimensionless transformation, and investigate its stability analytically. We then parameterised the model with consensus values for syntrophic propionate degradation compiled by the IWA Task Group for Mathematical Modelling of Anaerobic Digestion Processes. Consumption of energy for all processes other than growth is called maintenance. In the absence of maintenance and decay the microbial 'food chain' is intrinsically stable, but when decay is included in the description this is not necessarily the case. We point out that this is in analogy to canonical food chains where introduction of maintenance in the description of a stable (equilibrium or limit cycle) predator-prey system generates chaos.

The VirS/VirR two-component system regulates the anaerobic cytotoxicity, intestinal pathogenicity, and enterotoxemic lethality of Clostridium perfringens type C isolate CN3685.Clostridium perfringens vegetative cells cause both histotoxic infections (e.g., gas gangrene) and diseases originating in the intestines (e.g., hemorrhagic necrotizing enteritis or lethal enterotoxemia). Despite their medical and veterinary importance, the molecular pathogenicity of C. perfringens vegetative cells causing diseases of intestinal origin remains poorly understood. However, C. perfringens beta toxin (CPB) was recently shown to be important when vegetative cells of C. perfringens type C strain CN3685 induce hemorrhagic necrotizing enteritis and lethal enterotoxemia. Additionally, the VirS/VirR two-component regulatory system was found to control CPB production by CN3685 vegetative cells during aerobic infection of cultured enterocyte-like Caco-2 cells. Using an isogenic virR null mutant, the current study now reports that the VirS/VirR system also regulates CN3685 cytotoxicity during infection of Caco-2 cells under anaerobic conditions, as found in the intestines. More importantly, the virR mutant lost the ability to cause hemorrhagic necrotic enteritis in rabbit small intestinal loops. Western blot analyses demonstrated that the VirS/VirR system mediates necrotizing enteritis, at least in part, by controlling in vivo CPB production. In addition, vegetative cells of the isogenic virR null mutant were, relative to wild-type vegetative cells, strongly attenuated in their lethality in a mouse enterotoxemia model. Collectively, these results identify the first regulator of in vivo pathogenicity for C. perfringens vegetative cells causing disease originating in the complex intestinal environment. Since VirS/VirR also mediates histotoxic infections, this two-component regulatory system now assumes a global role in regulating a spectrum of infections caused by C. perfringens vegetative cells.

Comprehensive review and compilation of pretreatments for mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic digestion.Organic matter hydrolysis prior to anaerobic digestion has been shown to improve biogas production (30-50%) and reduce solids (20-60%) by ultrasound, chemical, conventional heating, and microwave pretreatments. Numerous studies have been performed to determine the extent of digestion improvement but few focus on financial feasibility of these processes. A comprehensive model was created using Microsoft Excel and its Visual Basic Assistant to evaluate pretreatment permutations for conventional wastewater treatment plants. The four above-mentioned processes were evaluated for energetic and financial demands. Well-established energy equations and wastewater characteristics, both average and high, were used. Average and high flows were 460 and 750×10(3) m3/d, respectively. Net costs per influent flow for ultrasound, chemical, conventional heating, and microwave were 0.0166, 0.0217, 0.0124, 0.0119 $/m3 and 0.0264, 0.0357, 0.0187, and 0.0162 $/m3 for average and high conditions, respectively. The average cost increase from results excluding pretreatment use for all processes was 0.003 and 0.0055 $/m3 for average and high conditions, respectively. No matter the permutation, pretreatments requiring more energy to achieve required hydrolysis levels were costlier. If energetic recoveries are substantial, dewaterability is positively affected, and solids meet environmental constraints to be handled and disposed at lower costs, pretreatments can be viable.

Attribute based specification, comparison and selection of feed stock for anaerobic digestion using MADM approach.Organic wastes are common in nature and generated at different sources which need to be treated before disposing into the environment. Anaerobic digestion (AD) process is a primary technique used for digestion and reduction of the ill effects of disposing the organic waste. Selection of appropriate feed stock for anaerobic digestion among the available options is a primary concern and the process efficiency and stability largely depend on this. The present paper describes a methodology for evaluation, comparison, ranking and optimum selection of a feed stock for anaerobic digestion. A 30 attribute coding scheme is proposed to evaluate the existing alternatives for feed stock of anaerobic digester. A three stage procedure which includes the elimination search is proposed to evaluate the available alternatives with the help of attributes quickly. Technique for order preference by similarity to ideal solution (TOPSIS) is a Multiple Attribute Decision Making (MADM) approach and graphical methods namely line graph and spider diagrams are used for optimum selection of feed stock among the available options. MATLAB code is written to execute the three stage procedure. The proposed methodology is explained through an illustrated example.

Treating municipal wastewater with the goal of resource recovery.A new municipal wastewater treatment flowsheet was developed with the objectives of energy sustainability, and water and nutrient recovery. Energy is derived by shunting a large fraction of the organic carbon in the wastewater to an anaerobic digestion system. Aerobic and anaerobic membrane bioreactors play a key role in energy recovery. Phosphorus and nitrogen are removed from the wastewater and recovered through physical-chemical processes. Computer modeling and simulation results together with energy balance calculations, imply the new flowsheet will result in a dramatic reduction in energy usage at lower treatment plant capital costs in comparison to conventional methods.

Evaluation of near infrared spectroscopy and software sensor methods for determination of total alkalinity in anaerobic digesters.In this study two approaches to predict the total alkalinity (expressed as mg L(-1)HCO(3)(-)) of an anaerobic digester are examined: firstly, software sensors based on multiple linear regression algorithms using data from pH, redox potential and electrical conductivity and secondly, near infrared reflectance spectroscopy (NIRS). Of the software sensors, the model using data from all three probes but a smaller dataset using total alkalinity values below 6000 mg L(-1)HCO(3)(-) produced the best calibration model (R(2)=0.76 and root mean square error of prediction (RMSEP) of 969 mg L(-1)HCO(3)(-)). When validated with new data, the NIRS method produced the best model (R(2)=0.87 RMSEP=1230 mg L(-1)HCO(3)(-)). The NIRS sensor correlated better with new data (R(2)=0.54). In conclusion, this study has developed new and improved algorithms for monitoring total alkalinity within anaerobic digestion systems which will facilitate real-time optimisation of methane production.

CFD investigation of turbulence models for mechanical agitation of non-Newtonian fluids in anaerobic digesters.This study evaluates six turbulence models for mechanical agitation of non-Newtonian fluids in a lab-scale anaerobic digestion tank with a pitched blade turbine (PBT) impeller. The models studied are: (1) the standard k-ɛ model, (2) the RNG k-ɛ model, (3) the realizable k-ɛ model, (4) the standard k-ω model, (5) the SST k-ω model, and (6) the Reynolds stress model. Through comparing power and flow numbers for the PBT impeller obtained from computational fluid dynamics (CFD) with those from the lab specifications, the realizable k-ɛ and the standard k-ω models are found to be more appropriate than the other turbulence models. An alternative method to calculate the Reynolds number for the moving zone that characterizes the impeller rotation is proposed to judge the flow regime. To check the effect of the model setup on the predictive accuracy, both discretization scheme and numerical approach are investigated. The model validation is conducted by comparing the simulated velocities with experimental data in a lab-scale digester from literature. Moreover, CFD simulation of mixing in a full-scale digester with two side-entry impellers is performed to optimize the installation.

Enhancing digestion efficiency of POME in anaerobic sequencing batch reactor with ozonation pretreatment and cycle time reduction.Ozonation pretreatment was applied to palm oil mill effluent (POME) prior to anaerobic digestion using the anaerobic sequencing batch reactor (ASBR). Ozonation increased BOD/COD by 37.9% with a COD loss of only 3.3%. At organic loads of 6.48-12.96 kg COD/m(3)/d, feeding with non-ozonated POME caused a system failure. The ozonated POME gave significantly higher TCOD removal at loadings 6.52 and 9.04 kg COD/m(3)/d but failed to sustain the operation at loading 11.67 kg COD/m(3)/d. Effects of cycle time (CT) and hydraulic retention time (HRT) were determined using quadratic regression model. The generated response surface and contour plot showed that at this high load conditions (6.52-11.67 kg COD/m(3)/d), longer HRT and shorter CT gave the ASBR higher organic removal efficiency and methane yield. The model was able to satisfactorily describe the relationship of these two key operating parameters.

Temperature phased anaerobic digestion increases apparent hydrolysis rate for waste activated sludge.It is well established that waste activated sludge with an extended sludge age is inherently slow to degrade with a low extent of degradation. Pre-treatment methods can be used prior to anaerobic digestion to improve the efficiency of activated sludge digestion. Among these pre-treatment methods, temperature phased anaerobic digestion (TPAD) is one promising method with a relatively low energy input and capital cost. In this study, an experimental thermophilic (50-70 °C)-mesophilic system was compared against a control mesophilic-mesophilic system. The thermophilic-mesophilic system achieved 41% and 48% volatile solids (VS) destruction during pre-treatment of 60 °C and 65 °C (or 70 °C) respectively, compared to 37% in the mesophilic-mesophilic TPAD system. Solubilisation in the first stage was enhanced during thermophilic pre-treatment (15% at 50 °C and 27% at 60 °C, 65 °C and 70 °C) over mesophilic pre-treatment (7%) according to a COD balance. This was supported by ammonia-nitrogen measurements. Model based analysis indicated that the mechanism for increased performance was due to an increase in hydrolysis coefficient under thermophilic pre-treatment of 60 °C (0.5 ± 0.1 d(-1)), 65 °C (0.7 ± 0.2 d(-1)) and 70 °C (0.8 ± 0.2 d(-1)) over mesophilic pre-treatment (0.2 ± 0.1 d(-1)), and thermophilic pre-treatment at 50 °C (0.12 ± 0.06 d(-1)).

Co-digestion of pig manure and glycerine: experimental and modelling study.It is a fact that the rapid increase of biodiesel production over the last years has resulted in the generation of large and constant amounts of glycerine, which is causing an oversupply problem. Since glycerine is a biodegradable organic compound exempt of nitrogen, it can be applied as a co-substrate in the anaerobic digestion process of pig manure (PM). In order to analyze the feasibility of a mixture of pig manure and glycerine in anaerobic processes and to define the effect originated by the nitrogen limitation when large amounts of glycerine are added, several biodegradability batch tests were performed with different mixtures. These were named as: 100% PM, 80% PM, 60% PM, 40% PM and 20% PM, in pig manure wet weight-basis. Furthermore, a modified model based on anaerobic digestion model no.1 (ADM1) was used to simulate the methane production profiles for the mixtures tested. Specifically, both experimental and model results show the power of the co-digestion technology. In particular, the mixture of 80% PM produced the highest methane production with 215 mL CH(4) g(-1) COD, almost 125% more methane than when pig manure was mono-digested. In contrast, the one with 20% PM was clearly inhibited by the volatile fatty acid due to the low nitrogen concentration of the mixture. In addition, the specific methane production predicted by the model was in good agreement with the experimental results, although in some samples the shape of the profiles did not match perfectly. Moreover, the modified ADM1 appears to be a useful tool to predict the methane production and the limitations related to the lack/excess of nitrogen during the co-digestion process of pig manure and glycerine.

Modelling of environmental impacts from biological treatment of organic municipal waste in EASEWASTE.The waste-LCA model EASEWASTE quantifies potential environmental effects from biological treatment of organic waste, based on mass and energy flows, emissions to air, water, soil and groundwater as well as effects from upstream and downstream processes. Default technologies for composting, anaerobic digestion and combinations hereof are available in the model, but the user can change all key parameters in the biological treatment module so that specific local plants and processes can be modelled. EASEWASTE is one of the newest waste LCA models and the biological treatment module was built partly on features of earlier waste-LCA models, but offers additional facilities, more flexibility, transparency and user-friendliness. The paper presents the main features of the module and provides some examples illustrating the capability of the model in environmentally assessing and discriminating the environmental performance of alternative biological treatment technologies in relation to their mass flows, energy consumption, gaseous emissions, biogas recovery and compost/digestate utilization.

Enhancing solubilisation and methane production kinetic of switchgrass by microwave pretreatment.This study investigated the effects of microwave pretreatment of switchgrass in order to enhance its anaerobic digestibility. Response surface analysis was applied to screen the effects of temperature and time of microwave pretreatment on matter solubilisation. The composite design showed that only temperature had a significant effect on solubilisation level. Then the effects of the microwave pretreatment were correlated to the pretreatment temperature. The sCOD/tCOD ratio was equal to 9.4% at 90°C and increased until 13.8% at 180°C. The BMP assays of 42 days showed that microwave pretreatment induced no change on the ultimate volume of methane but had an interesting effect on the reaction kinetic. Indeed, the time required to reach 80% of ultimate volume CH(4) is reduced by 4.5 days at 150°C using the microwave pretreatment.

Assessment of optimum dilution ratio for biohydrogen production by anaerobic co-digestion of press mud with sewage and water.Anaerobic co-digestion of press mud with water or sewage at ratios of 1:7.5, 1:10 and 1:12.5 were performed in continuously fed UASB reactors for hydrogen production. At a constant hydraulic retention time of 30 h, the specific hydrogen production rate was 187 mL/g volatile solids (VS) reduced during maximum biohydrogen production of 7960 mL/day at a 1:10 ratio of press mud to sewage. Chemical oxygen demand (COD) and VS reductions of 61% and 59% were noted on peak biohydrogen yield. A pH range of 5-6 was suitable at ambient temperature for entire process; a lower pH was inhibitory. Co-digestion of acidic press mud with sewage controlled pH for fermentation. Hence press mud can be exploited for biohydrogen production.

[Mechanism of acetate accumulation during sludge anaerobic digestion].To investigate the organic carbon metabolism during sludge anaerobic digestion and to clarify the mechanism of acetate accumulation.
We Used inhibitors 2-bromoethanesulfonate (BES) and chloroform (CHCl3) to block the methanogesis to investigate the accumulation of various fermentation intermediates. We determined the bacterial number of homoacetogen and syntrophic acetogen and calculated the thermodynamics of the acetogenesis reaction to identify the directions of organic carbon metabolism and acetate accumulation during sludge anaerobic digestion.
With the addition of BES, the acetate concentration was 27 mmol/L, the gene copy number of fhs was 2-3 folds of the control group and the number of sytroph acetogen was slightly decreased. In the group of chloroform addition, the acetate was 22 mmol/L, while the copy number of fhs gene was one order of magnitude lower than that in the BES model.
The two inhibitors lead to acetate accumulation from the anaerobic digestion of sludge. BES inhibited the methanogen and had no effect on other anaerobic acetogens. The accumulation of the acetate came from the hydrolysis acidogenesis, homoacetogenesis and syntrophic acetogenesis. Chloroform inhibited not only methanogen but also the homoacetogen and syntrophic acetogen severely. The acetate accumulation mainly came from the hydrolysis acidogenesis fermentation.

Tigecycline exhibits inhibitory activity against Clostridium difficile in the colon of mice and does not promote growth or toxin production.Tigecycline is a broad-spectrum glycylcycline antibiotic with potent in vitro activity against Clostridium difficile. We used a mouse model to test the hypothesis that tigecycline has a low propensity to promote colonization and toxin production by C. difficile due to inhibitory activity in the colon. Mice (5 to 8 per group) received subcutaneous injections of tigecycline (low and high doses) alone or in combination with clindamycin for 6 days. Growth of and toxin production by 3 strains of C. difficile (tigecycline MICs ≤ 0.012 μg/ml) were measured in cecal contents collected 6 h or 3 days after the final antibiotic dose. Antibiotic concentrations were measured using a bioassay, and concentrations of total anaerobes and Bacteroides spp. were measured. The effects of tigecycline on rendering mice susceptible to colonization with and reducing the burden of C. difficile were also examined. In comparison to saline controls, clindamycin promoted the growth of C. difficile (P < 0.001) in cecal contents, whereas tigecycline did not. Tigecycline did not suppress total anaerobes or Bacteroides spp. in comparison to saline controls. Concurrent administration of tigecycline prevented clindamycin-induced promotion of C. difficile in cecal contents collected 6 h or 3 days (high dose only) after the final antibiotic dose. Tigecycline did not promote the establishment of colonization in mice, yet it did not reduce concentrations of C. difficile in animals with established colonization. In summary, tigecycline did not promote the growth of or toxin production by C. difficile, probably due to inhibitory activity against C. difficile and relative sparing of indigenous anaerobic microflora.

Methane production potential (B0) of swine and cattle manures--a Canadian perspective.Canada's agricultural emissions accounted for 60 Mt or 8% of national greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions in 2007. The estimation of CH4 emission factor (B0) from manure management systems in Canada is prone to uncertainty owing to lack of B0 values for Canadian conditions. Therefore, in this study, manure samples from six Canadian animal farms, two each of swine, beef and dairy cattle, were investigated in order to estimate their methane production potential (B0). The ultimate anaerobic biodegradability was measured with ISO standard batch fermentation. The extent of biodegradation of the manure samples with or without sodium benzoate was always greater than 60% and hence showed no inhibitory effect on methane production by the manure. The impact of use of antibiotics in the animal feed on methane production was also considered; however, no inhibitory effect on methane production could be observed. The plateau of methane production in all cases was achieved by 63 d of anaerobic digestion process and the final pH was within 6-8. The calculated B0 were in the range of 0.47-0.42, 0.21-0.19 and 0.35-0.30 for swine, beef cattle and dairy cattle, respectively. The uncertainties associated with B0 values were +/- 9% for swine, +/- 3% for beef cattle and, +/- 6 and +/- 2% for dairy cows.

Modeling temperature variations in a pilot plant thermophilic anaerobic digester.A model that predicts temperature changes in a pilot plant thermophilic anaerobic digester was developed based on fundamental thermodynamic laws. The methodology utilized two simulation strategies. In the first, model equations were solved through a searching routine based on a minimal square optimization criterion, from which the overall heat transfer coefficient values, for both biodigester and heat exchanger, were determined. In the second, the simulation was performed with variable values of these overall coefficients. The prediction with both strategies allowed reproducing experimental data within 5% of the temperature span permitted in the equipment by the system control, which validated the model. The temperature variation was affected by the heterogeneity of the feeding and extraction processes, by the heterogeneity of the digestate recirculation through the heating system and by the lack of a perfect mixing inside the biodigester tank. The use of variable overall heat transfer coefficients improved the temperature change prediction and reduced the effect of a non-ideal performance of the pilot plant modeled.

Effects of pulp and paper mill effluent extracts on liver anaerobic and aerobic metabolic enzymes in rainbow trout.This study investigates whether pulse exposure to Chilean pulp and paper mill effluent solid phase extracted (SPE) extracts via intraperitoneal injection (IP), would result in changes in the activities of the respiratory metabolic enzymes citrate synthase (CS) and lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) in rainbow trout livers. It also investigated if an alteration in liver metabolic capacity influenced the liver detoxification processes and estrogenic effects previously reported. Besides, a comparison of those enzymatic activities with fish IP injected with SPE extracts of two model effluents coming from industries that process 100% different type of feedstock (softwood, SW and hardwood, HW) was also evaluated. An initial induction of the anaerobic metabolism (increase in LDH enzymatic activity) was detected in all Chilean pulp mill effluent extracts evaluated, contrary to the initial unaltered aerobic metabolism (CS enzymatic activity) observed. A compensatory relationship in energy metabolism (Pasteur effect) was observed when comparing both enzymatic activities of fish exposed to those effluent extracts. LDH and CS activities observed in fish injected with Chilean extracts seem to be related to the effects observed in fish injected with SW extracts. This study showed that intraperitoneal injection of pulp and paper mill effluent extracts affected the anaerobic and aerobic metabolic capacities in rainbow trout livers, but this metabolic alteration did not affect detoxification capability or estrogenic effect previously reported.

Effect of extracellular enzyme activity on digestion performance of mesophilic UASB reactor treating high-strength municipal wastewater.Effect of extracellular enzyme activity on digestion performance of up-flow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor was investigated for enhancement of anaerobic treatability of municipal wastewater. Two identical UASB reactors (9 L), namely Reactor-A (without enzyme addition) and Reactor-B (with enzyme addition),were simultaneously operated at mesophilic conditions (32 ± 2°C) with a hydraulic retention time of 24 h. Preliminary test results showed that the highest total chemical oxygen demand (TCOD) removal were achieved with an extracellular enzyme dosage of 0.2 mL/L. In the activation period of the extracellular enzyme (on days 186-212), while Reactor-A removed up to 69.3% of TCOD and 55.9% of soluble chemical oxygen demand (SCOD), Reactor-B effectively removed up to 81.9% of TCOD and 72.2% of SCOD. The average VFA/alkalinity ratios were determined to be about 0.40 (±0.03) and 0.28 (±0.08) for Reactor-A and Reactor-B, respectively.

Drug metabolome of the simvastatin formed by human intestinal microbiota in vitro.The human colon contains a diverse microbial population which contributes to degradation and metabolism of food components. Drug metabolism in the colon is generally poorly understood. Metabolomics techniques and in vitro colon models are now available which afford detailed characterization of drug metabolites in the context of colon metabolism. The aim of this work was to identify novel drug metabolites of Simvastatin (SV) by using an anaerobic human in vitro colon model at body temperature coupled with systems biology platform, excluding the metabolism of the host liver and intestinal epithelia. Comprehensive two-dimensional gas chromatography with a time-of-flight mass spectrometry (GC×GC-TOFMS) was used for the metabolomic analysis. Metabolites showing the most significant differences in the active faecal suspension were elucidated in reference with SV fragmentation and compared with controls: inactive suspension or buffer with SV, or with active suspension alone. Finally, time courses of selected metabolites were investigated. Our data suggest that SV is degraded by hydrolytic cleavage of methylbutanoic acid from the SV backbone. Metabolism involves demethylation of dimethylbutanoic acid, hydroxylation/dehydroxylation and β-oxidation resulting in the production of 2-hydroxyisovaleric acid (3-methyl-2-hydroxybutanoic acid), 3-hydroxybutanoic acid and lactic acid (2-hydroxypropanoic acid), and finally re-cyclisation of heptanoic acid (possibly de-esterified and cleaved methylpyranyl arm) to produce cyclohexanecarboxylic acid. Our study elucidates a pathway of colonic microbial metabolism of SV as well as demonstrates the applicability of the in vitro colon model and metabolomics to the discovery of novel drug metabolites from drug response profiles.

Digestion of cattle manure: thermogravimetric kinetic analysis for the evaluation of organic matter conversion.Anaerobic digestion of cattle manure was studied under thermophilic and mesophilic conditions with the purpose of evaluating the effect of temperature on the quality of the final digestate. Non-isothermal thermogravimetric kinetic analysis was applied for assessing organic matter conversion of biological stabilization. The mathematical approximation proves to be a useful tool for evaluating the differences attained during biological degradation. The anaerobic digestion of the organic substrate resulted in a reduction of the activation energy value obtained from the different applied kinetic models. Results obtained from thermal kinetic analysis were in accordance with those from the monitoring of the anaerobic digestion process. The higher values of methane yield reported for the mesophilic digestion in comparison to that of the thermophilic indicated a greater capability of the former process in the utilization of substrate and thus a higher conversion of organic matter which can be quantified by the activation energy value.

Alleviating cancer drug toxicity by inhibiting a bacterial enzyme.The dose-limiting side effect of the common colon cancer chemotherapeutic CPT-11 is severe diarrhea caused by symbiotic bacterial β-glucuronidases that reactivate the drug in the gut. We sought to target these enzymes without killing the commensal bacteria essential for human health. Potent bacterial β-glucuronidase inhibitors were identified by high-throughput screening and shown to have no effect on the orthologous mammalian enzyme. Crystal structures established that selectivity was based on a loop unique to bacterial β-glucuronidases. Inhibitors were highly effective against the enzyme target in living aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, but did not kill the bacteria or harm mammalian cells. Finally, oral administration of an inhibitor protected mice from CPT-11-induced toxicity. Thus, drugs may be designed to inhibit undesirable enzyme activities in essential microbial symbiotes to enhance chemotherapeutic efficacy.

Biochemical methane potential and biodegradability of complex organic substrates.The biomethane potential and biodegradability of an array of substrates with highly heterogeneous characteristics, including mono- and co-digestion samples with dairy manure, was determined using the biochemical methane potential (BMP) assay. In addition, the ability of two theoretical methods to estimate the biomethane potential of substrates and the influence of biodegradability was evaluated. The results of about 175 individual BMP assays indicate that substrates rich in lipids and easily-degradable carbohydrates yield the highest methane potential, while more recalcitrant substrates with a high lignocellulosic fraction have the lowest. Co-digestion of dairy manure with easily-degradable substrates increases the specific methane yields when compared to manure-only digestion. Additionally, biomethane potential of some co-digestion mixtures suggested synergistic activity. Evaluated theoretical methods consistently over-estimated experimentally-obtained methane yields when substrate biodegradability was not accounted. Upon correcting the results of theoretical methods with observed biodegradability data, an agreement greater than 90% was achieved.

Computational fluid dynamics investigation of turbulence models for non-newtonian fluid flow in anaerobic digesters.In this paper, 12 turbulence models for single-phase non-newtonian fluid flow in a pipe are evaluated by comparing the frictional pressure drops obtained from computational fluid dynamics (CFD) with those from three friction factor correlations. The turbulence models studied are (1) three high-Reynolds-number k-ε models, (2) six low-Reynolds-number k-ε models, (3) two k-ω models, and (4) the Reynolds stress model. The simulation results indicate that the Chang-Hsieh-Chen version of the low-Reynolds-number k-ε model performs better than the other models in predicting the frictional pressure drops while the standard k-ω model has an acceptable accuracy and a low computing cost. In the model applications, CFD simulation of mixing in a full-scale anaerobic digester with pumped circulation is performed to propose an improvement in the effective mixing standards recommended by the U.S. EPA based on the effect of rheology on the flow fields. Characterization of the velocity gradient is conducted to quantify the growth or breakage of an assumed floc size. Placement of two discharge nozzles in the digester is analyzed to show that spacing two nozzles 180° apart with each one discharging at an angle of 45° off the wall is the most efficient. Moreover, the similarity rules of geometry and mixing energy are checked for scaling up the digester.

Anaerobic digestion of slaughterhouse waste: main process limitations and microbial community interactions.Fresh pig/cattle slaughterhouse waste mixtures, with different lipid-protein ratios, were characterized and their anaerobic biodegradability assessed in batch tests. The resultant methane potentials were high (270-300 L(CH4) kg(-1)(COD)) making them interesting substrates for the anaerobic digestion process. However, when increasing substrate concentrations in consecutive batch tests, up to 15 g(COD) kg(-1), a clear inhibitory process was monitored. Despite the reported severe inhibition, related to lipid content, the system was able to recover activity and successfully degrade the substrate. Furthermore, 16SrRNA gene-based DGGE results showed an enrichment of specialized microbial populations, such as β-oxidizing/proteolitic bacteria (Syntrophomonas sp., Coprothermobacter sp. and Anaerobaculum sp.), and syntrophic methanogens (Methanosarcina sp.). Consequently, the lipid concentration of substrate and the structure of the microbial community are the main limiting factors for a successful anaerobic treatment of fresh slaughterhouse waste.

Optimizing feed composition for improved methane yield during anaerobic digestion of cow manure based waste mixtures.This study investigated methane yield via anaerobic digestion of multi-component substrates based on mixtures of biodegradable single-component substrates with cow dung as main component. Bench and full-scale digestion experiments were carried out for both single and multi-component substrates to identify the relationship between methane yield and substrate composition. Results from both bench- and full-scale experiments corresponded well and showed that using multi-component substrates increases the methane yield much more than what would be expected from digestion of single substrates. Process stability as indicated by gas production, pH and NH(4)(+) concentration variations were also improved by using multi-component substrates compared to digestion of single-component substrates. The results, thus, suggest that assessment of methane yield for multi-component substrates cannot reliably be based on methane yields for corresponding single-component substrates but should instead be measured directly.

Numerical simulation of mechanical mixing in high solid anaerobic digester.Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) was employed to study mixing performance in high solid anaerobic digester (HSAD) with A-310 impeller and helical ribbon. A mathematical model was constructed to assess flow fields. Good agreement of the model results with experimental data was obtained for the A-310 impeller. A systematic comparison for the interrelationship of power number, flow number and Reynolds number was simulated in a digester with less than 5% TS and 10% TS (total solids). The simulation results suggested a great potential for using the helical ribbon mixer in the mixing of high solids digester. The results also provided quantitative confirmation for minimum power consumption in HSAD and the effect of share rate on bio-structure.

Modelling mono-digestion of grass silage in a 2-stage CSTR anaerobic digester using ADM1.This paper examines 174 days of experimental data and modelling of mono-digestion of grass silage in a two stage wet process with recirculation of liquor; the two vessels have an effective volume of 312 L each. The organic loading rate is initiated at 0.5 kg VS m(-3) d(-1) (first 74 days) and subsequently increased to 1 kg VS m(-3) d(-1). The experimental data was used to generate a mathematical model (ADM1) which was calibrated over the first 74 days of operation. Good accuracy with experimental data was found for the subsequent 100 days. Results of the model would suggest starting the process without recirculation and thus building up the solids content of the liquor. As the level of VFA increases, recirculation should be employed to control VFA. Recirculation also controls solids content and pH. Methane production was estimated at 88% of maximum theoretical production.

Optimal utilization of waste-to-energy in an LCA perspective.Energy production from two types of municipal solid waste was evaluated using life cycle assessment (LCA): (1) mixed high calorific waste suitable for production of solid recovered fuels (SRF) and (2) source separated organic waste. For SRF, co-combustion was compared with mass burn incineration. For organic waste, anaerobic digestion (AD) was compared with mass burn incineration. In the case of mass burn incineration, incineration with and without energy recovery was modelled. Biogas produced from anaerobic digestion was evaluated for use both as transportation fuel and for heat and power production. All relevant consequences for energy and resource consumptions, emissions to air, water and soil, upstream processes and downstream processes were included in the LCA. Energy substitutions were considered with respect to two different energy systems: a present-day Danish system based on fossil fuels and a potential future system based on 100% renewable energy. It was found that mass burn incineration of SRF with energy recovery provided savings in all impact categories, but co-combustion was better with respect to Global Warming (GW). If all heat from incineration could be utilized, however, the two alternatives were comparable for SRF. For organic waste, mass burn incineration with energy recovery was preferable over anaerobic digestion in most impact categories. Waste composition and flue gas cleaning at co-combustion plants were critical for the environmental performance of SRF treatment, while the impacts related to utilization of the digestate were significant for the outcome of organic waste treatment. The conclusions were robust in a present-day as well as in a future energy system. This indicated that mass burn incineration with efficient energy recovery is a very environmentally competitive solution overall.

Model assisted startup of anaerobic digesters fed with thermally hydrolysed activated sludge.This paper presents the use of the IWA ADM1 to predict and interpret results from two full-scale anaerobic digesters fed with thermal hyrolysate (waste activated sludge with a long upstream sludge age) from a Cambi hydrolysis process operating at 165°C and 6 bar-g. The first digester was fed conventionally-though intermittently, while the second was heavily diluted through a substantial component of the evaluation period (110 days). There were a number of important outcomes-related to both model application, and model predictions. Input and inert COD: mass ratio was very important, and was considerably higher than the 1.42 g g⁻¹ used for biomass throughout the IWA activated sludge and anaerobic digestion models. Input COD: VS ratio was 1.6 g g⁻¹, and inert COD: VS ratio was 1.7 g g⁻¹. The model succeeded on a number of levels, including effective prediction of important outputs (degradability, gas flow and composition, and final solids), clarification of the substantial data scatter, prediction of recovery times during operationally poor periods, and cross-validation of the results between digester 1 and digester 2. Key failures in model performance were related to an early incorrect assumption of the COD: VS ratio of 1.42 g g⁻¹, and intermittent high acetate levels, most likely caused by inhibition, and rapid acclimatisation to ammonia. The acute free ammonia limit was found to be 0.008 M NH(3)-N, while the chronic inhibition constant (K(I,NH₃,ac)) was 0.007 ± 0.001 M NH₃-N. Overall, this is a complex system, and application of the model added significant confidence to the initial operational decisions during an aggressive startup on an atypical feed.

Metabolism of green tea catechins by the human small intestine.Numerous studies have shown that green tea polyphenols can be degraded in the colon, and there is abundant knowledge about the metabolites of these substances that appear in urine and plasma after green tea ingestion. However, there is very little information on the extent and nature of intestinal degradation of green tea catechins in humans. Therefore, the aim of this study was to examine in detail the microbial metabolism and chemical stability of these polyphenols in the small intestine using a well-established ex vivo model. For this purpose, fresh ileostomy fluids from two probands were incubated for 24 h under anaerobic conditions with (+)-catechin (C), (-)-epicatechin (EC), (-)-epicatechin 3-O-gallate (ECG), (-)-epigallocatechin (EGC), (-)-epigallocatchin 3-O-gallate (EGCG) and gallic acid (GA). After lyophilisation and extraction, metabolites were separated, identified and quantified by high performance liquid chromatography-photodiode array detection (HPLC-DAD) and HPLC-ESI-tandem mass spectrometry. Two metabolites of EC and C (3', 4', 5'-trihydroxyphenyl-γ-valerolactone and 3', 4'-dihydroxyphenyl-γ-valerolactone) were identified. In addition, 3', 4', 5'-trihydroxyphenyl-γ-valerolactone was detected as a metabolite of EGC, and (after 24-h incubation) pyrogallol as a degradation product of GA. Cleavage of the GA esters of EGCG and ECG was also observed, with variations dependent on the sources (probands) of the ileal fluids, which differed substantially microbiotically. The results provide new information about the degradation of green tea catechins in the gastrointestinal tract, notably that microbiota-dependent liberation of GA esters may occur before these compounds reach the colon.

Brewer's yeast cell wall affects microbiota composition and decreases Bacteroides fragilis populations in an anaerobic gut intestinal model.Brewer's yeast cell wall (BYC) has been reported to have prebiotic activity that improves the microbiotal composition of the human gut. To understand the precise effect of BYC on gut microbiota and its metabolism, we used a three-stage continuous-flow reactor system that mimicked the environment of the large intestine. The reactor system was able to maintain the bacterial community stably for a week. The Bacteroides fragilis population decreased drastically after the addition of BYC into this system while the number of Lactobacillus was stably maintained. In addition, propionate and acetate levels increased drastically. This metabolic change correlated with an increase in a number of specific operational taxonomic units annotated to the genus Veillonella and Megasphaella. These results suggest that BYC affects the composition of microbiota in an in vitro model system.

In vitro anaerobic biofilms of human colonic microbiota.The human gastrointestinal tract hosts a complex community of microorganisms that grow as biofilms on the intestinal mucosa. These bacterial communities are not well characterized, although they are known to play an important role in human health. This study aimed to develop a model for culturing biofilms (surface-adherent communities) of intestinal microbiota. The model utilizes adherent mucosal bacteria recovered from colonic biopsies to create multi-species biofilms. Culture on selective media and confocal microscopy indicated the biofilms were composed of a diverse community of bacteria. Molecular analyses confirmed that several phyla were represented in the model, and demonstrated stability of the community over 96 h when cultured in the device. This model is novel in its use of a multi-species community of mucosal bacteria grown in a biofilm mode of growth.

[The human intestinal microbiota].The human intestinal microbiota constitutes a complex ecosystem which is now well recognized for its impact on human health and well-being. It contributes to maturation of the immune system and provides a direct barrier against colonization by pathogens. Its possible implication in diseases of modern societies, currently increasing in prevalence, has been reported. These include allergies, inflammatory bowel diseases and possibly metabolic and degenerative disorders. The analysis of the molecular composition of the human intestinal microbiota indicates marked inter-individual variations which may seem paradoxical considering the high degree of conservation of major functions of the intestinal microbiota such as anaerobic digestion of alimentary fibres. We have characterized a phylogenetic core within the human intestinal microbiota, in terms of composition, i.e., a set of conserved species that could be responsible for major conserved functions. Based on culture-independent molecular assessments, current knowledge enables a definition of criteria qualifying the normal state of the human intestinal microbiota that we call normobiosis. This further enables the identification of specific deviations from normobiosis, i.e., dysbiosis in immune, metabolic or degenerative diseases. Notably, Crohn's disease, an inflammatory bowel disease of yet unknown aetiology, is associated with intestinal dysbiosis with a lower representation of the Clostridium leptum group among the Firmicutes phylum. We further showed that the bacterial species Faecalibacterium prausnitzii exerts anti-inflammatory properties in vitro and in animal models; this could explain its ability, when detected in the mucosa-associated microbiota of patients in vivo, to protect patients from post-operative recurrence of endoscopic signs of inflammation 6 months after surgical resection of the ileocecal region of the gut. By confirming the major role of the microbiota in bowel-related disorders, which are especially associated with a disruption of homeostasis, we are currently applying high throughput functional metagenomic screens in order to identify signal molecules and mechanisms of bacteria-host cross-talk. Together with the high resolution description of the human intestinal metagenome, as well as explorations of environmental proteins and metabolites, these observations will further our understanding of the functional roles bacteria play in the maintenance of health and well-being in humans. It will open new perspectives for the monitoring and design of strategies for modulating the microbiota for health.

Bipolar effects of settling time on active biomass retention in anaerobic sequencing batch reactors digesting flushed dairy manure.Active biomass retention is a technical challenge in anaerobic digester treating dilute animal manure that contains solids particles. A strategy was tested using fibers in the dairy manure as biomass carriers by controlling settling time. Settling time ranging from 0.5 to 60min were applied to eight anaerobic sequencing batch reactors to investigate their effects on active biomass retention in anaerobic digestion of flushed dairy manure. Results revealed that there existed a critical settling time at 2min at which only minimum amount of active biomass was retained, and as settling time increased or decreased from this threshold, more active biomass could be retained. Gravity settling and selection pressure theories were suggested to account for the results. A model integrating these two effects was developed and verified with the experimental data. Knowledge derived from this study may lead to innovative bacterial retention technology for cost-effective anaerobic digestion of dairy wastes.

Updating a model of pulp and paper wastewater treatment in a partial-mix aerated stabilization basin system.A relatively simple set of calculations was presented in 1994 to evaluate the effectiveness of each ASB cell as reactor, clarifier, and digester. The steady-state model, which incorporated estimates of solids settling and benthal feedback of BOD5 and nutrients, has been a reasonable diagnostic tool for municipal and industrial applications. Results have aided in understanding normal system function, the nature of chronic inefficiencies of individual systems, and appropriate modifications to meet changes in discharge requirements. For applications in the pulp and paper industry, several changes have been incorporated recently. Nitrogen limitation is not needed in modeling pulp and paper ASB reactions. Slowly biodegradable material is modeled as a contributor to soluble BOD5, and this contribution becomes a significant factor in the latter segments of an ASB. Phosphorus availability is modeled as a stoichiometric control of soluble BOD5 uptake. Anoxic microorganisms are assumed to be responsible for a portion of the soluble BOD5 consumption in the first ASB aeration zone. Finally, the long-term nutrient capture in ASBs is modeled as 3% for nitrogen and 28% for phosphorus.

Liver metabolomic changes identify biochemical pathways in hemorrhagic shock.Despite ongoing advances in treatment, thousands of patients still die annually from complications due to hemorrhagic shock, a condition causing dramatic physiologic and metabolic changes as cells switch to anaerobic metabolism in response to oxygen deprivation. As the shift from aerobic to anaerobic metabolism occurs in the peripheral tissues during shock, the liver must increase production of endogenous glucose as well as process excess lactate produced in the periphery. This places the liver at the center of metabolic regulation in the body during hemorrhagic shock. Therefore, we hypothesized that liver tissue from pigs during an in vivo model of hemorrhagic shock (n = 6) would reflect resultant metabolic changes.
The in vivo model of shock consisted of 45 min of shock followed by 8 h of hypotensive resuscitation (80 mmHg) and subsequent normotensive resuscitation (90 mmHg) ending 48 h after the shock period. Control groups of pigs (n = 3) (1) shock with no resuscitation, and (2) only anesthesia and instrumentation, also were included. Metabolic changes within the liver after shock and during resuscitation were investigated using both proton ((1)H) and phosphorous ((31)P) nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy.
Concentrations of glycerylphosphorylcholine (GPC) and glycerylphosphorylethanolamine (GPE) were significantly lower at 8 h after shock, with recovery to baseline by 23 and 48 h after shock. Uridine diphosphate-glucose (UDP-glucose), and phosphoenolpyruvate (PEP) were elevated 23 h after shock.
These results indicate that (1)H and (31)P NMR spectroscopy can be used to identify differences in liver metabolites in an in vivo model of hemorrhagic shock, indicating that metabolomic analysis can be used to elucidate biochemical events occurring during this complex disease process.

Bio-kinetic analysis on treatment of textile dye wastewater using anaerobic batch reactor.An anaerobic digestion technique was applied to textile dye wastewater aiming at the colour and COD removal. Pet bottles of 5 L capacity were used as reactor which contains methanogenic sludge of half a liter capacity which was used for the treatment of combined synthetic textile dye and starch wastewater at different mixing ratios of 20:80, 30:70, 40:60, 50:50 and 60:40 with initial COD concentrations as 3520, 3440, 3360, 3264 and 3144 mg L(-1), respectively. The reactor was maintained at room temperature (30±3°C) with initial pH of 7. The maximum COD and colour removal were 81.0% and 87.3% at an optimum mixing ratio of 30:70 of textile dye and starch wastewaters. Both Monod's and Haldane's models were adopted in this study. The kinetic constants of cell growth under Haldane's model were satisfactory when compared to Monod's model. The kinetic constants obtained by Haldane's model were found to be in the range of μmax=0.037-0.146 h(-1), Ks=651.04-1372.88 mg L(-1) and Ki=5681.81-18727.59 mg L(-1).

Intestinal flora imbalance results in altered bacterial translocation and liver function in rats with experimental cirrhosis.The intestinal microflora plays a major role in human health. Intestinal flora imbalances are seen in clinical settings, such as cirrhosis, in which bacterial translocation (BT) results in migration of bacteria or bacterial products from the intestinal lumen to extraintestinal sites. In this study, we explored the effect of alterations in gut flora on BT and liver function in cirrhotic rats.
In this study, we used a carbon tetrachloride-induced cirrhotic rat model to compare the abundance of major aerobic and anaerobic bacterial species in healthy and cirrhotic rats. We used antibiotic (norfloxacin) and different probiotic treatments to change the status of gut flora in the cirrhotic rats and evaluated BT, liver function, and endotoxemia in the different models.
We found higher levels of Enterobacteriaceae in cirrhotic rats when compared with healthy rats. Bifidobacteria treatment resulted in lower levels of Enterobacteriaceae along with increased levels of Lactobacillus when compared with the normal saline group. Both Bifidobacteria and Enterococcus treatments resulted in lower endotoxin levels than in the normal saline group.
Gut flora imbalances in cirrhotic rats result in significant changes in BT and liver function in cirrhotic rats.

Dry-thermophilic anaerobic digestion of simulated organic fraction of municipal solid waste: process modeling.Solid retention time (SRT) is a very important operational variable in continuous and semicontinuous waste treatment processes since the organic matter removal efficiency--expressed in terms of percentage of Dissolved Organic Carbon (% DOC) or Volatile Solids (% VS) removed--and the biogas or methane production are closely related with the SRT imposed. Optimum SRT is depending on the waste characteristics and the microorganisms involved in the process and, hence, it should be determined specifically in each case. In this work a series of experiments were carried out to determine the effect of SRT, from 40 to 8 days, on the performance of the dry (30% Total Solids) thermophilic (55°C) anaerobic digestion of organic fraction of Municipal Solid Wastes (OFMSW) operating at semicontinuous regime of feeding. The experimental results show than 15days is the optimum SRT (the best between all proved) for this process. Besides, data of organic matter concentration and methane production versus SRT have been used to obtain the kinetic parameters of the kinetic model of Romero García (1991): the maximum specific growth rate of the microorganisms (μmax=0.580 days(-1)) and the fraction of substrate non-biodegradable (α=0.268).

Anaerobic co-digestion of livestock wastes with vegetable processing wastes: a statistical analysis.Anaerobic digestion of livestock wastes with carbon rich residues was studied. Swine manure and poultry litter were selected as livestock waste, and vegetable processing waste was selected as the rich carbon source. A Central Composite Design (CCD) and Response Surface Methodology (RSM) were employed in designing experiments and determine individual and interactive effects over methane production and removal of volatile solids. In the case of swine manure co-digestion, an increase in vegetable processing waste resulted in higher volatile solids removal. However, without a proper substrate/biomass ratio, buffer capacity of swine manure was not able to avoid inhibitory effects associated with TVFA accumulation. Regarding co-digestion with poultry litter, substrate concentration determined VS removal achieved, above 80 g VSL(-1), NH(3) inhibition was detected. Statistical analysis allowed us to set initial conditions and parameters to achieve best outputs for real-scale plant operation and/or co-digestion mixtures design.

Statistical modelling of the impact of some polyphenols on the efficiency of anaerobic digestion and the co-digestion of the wine distillery wastewater with dairy cattle manure and cheese whey.The objective of this study was to determine the effectiveness of anaerobic digestion in the treatment of polyphenols (PP) present in olive mill wastewater (OMW) and wine distillery wastewater (WDW). Anaerobic Toxicity Assay (ATA) was conducted to assess the impact of the most representative phenolic compounds present in OMW and WDW: catechol, tannins and p-Coumaric acid, on biogas production. The results from this study show that tannins do not present any inhibitory effect on methanogenesis at a concentration level of 1,664 ppm, whereas catechol has an inhibitory effect at 1,664 ppm. In addition, p-Coumaric acid was strongly inhibitory at 50 ppm. The co-digestion of OMW and WDW with other effluents was proposed as a solution for reducing the load of PP in the anaerobic medium. Biochemical methane potential (BMP) tests were carried out for dairy cattle manure and mixtures of five PP. A central composite design was implemented on the BMP tests to model the biogas production response and the degradation kinetics of PP. The co-digestion of WDW with cattle manure and/or whey was also investigated in BMP tests. The results show that the digestion was optimal at a ratio of 16: 64: 20 (WDW: manure: inoculum) with a maximum biogas yield of 172 mL/g of VS and 66% COD removal.

ICC density predicts bacterial overgrowth in a rat model of post-infectious IBS.To investigate the interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) number using a new rat model.
Sprague-Dawley rats were assigned to two groups. The first group received gavage with Campylobacter jejuni (C. jejuni) 81-176. The second group was gavaged with placebo. Three months after clearance of Campylobacter from the stool, precise segments of duodenum, jejunum, and ileum were ligated in self-contained loops of bowel that were preserved in anaerobic bags. Deep muscular plexus ICC (DMP-ICC) were quantified by two blinded readers assessing the tissue in a random, coded order. The number of ICC per villus was compared among controls, Campylobacter recovered rats without small intestinal bacterial overgrowth (SIBO), and Campylobacter recovered rats with SIBO.
Three months after recovery, 27% of rats gavaged with C. jejuni had SIBO. The rats with SIBO had a lower number of DMP-ICC than controls in the jejunum and ileum. Additionally there appeared to be a density threshold of 0.12 DMP-ICC/villus that was associated with SIBO. If ileal density of DMP-ICC was < 0.12 ICC/villus, 54% of rats had SIBO compared to 9% among ileal sections with > 0.12 (P < 0.05). If the density of ICC was < 0.12 DMP-ICC/villus in more than one location of the bowel, 88% of these had SIBO compared to 6% in those who did not (P < 0.001).
In this post-infectious rat model, the development of SIBO appears to be associated with a reduction in DMP-ICC. Further study of this rat model might help understand the pathophysiology of post-infectious irritable bowel syndrome.

Impact of ammonia and sulphate concentration on thermophilic anaerobic digestion.The effect of increasing concentrations of ammonia and sulphate on thermophilic anaerobic digestion (52 degrees C) was studied at laboratory-scale. The substrate consisted of a synthetic solution supplemented with ammonia and sodium sulphate. In terms of biogas production, the results showed that the C/N and C/SO(4)(2-) thresholds were 4.40 and 1.60, respectively, corresponding to 620 mg FA (free ammonia)/L and 1400 mg SO(4)(2-)/L. No reduction in biogas production was observed until reaching the above concentration of sulphate in the sulphate toxicity test. However, when the concentration of ammonia was increased to 620 mg FA/L in the ammonia toxicity test, a gradual decrease of 21% was observed for the biogas. In order to characterise each set of experiments kinetically, a biogas production first-order kinetic model was used to fit the experimental data. The proposed model accurately predicted the behaviour of the microorganisms affecting the thermophilic anaerobic digestion, allowing its evolution to be predicted.

Lactic acid fermentation of germinated barley fiber and proliferative function of colonic epithelial cells in loperamide-induced rats.To develop a functional food from the dietary fiber fraction of germinated barley (Hordeum vulgare L.) (GBF), lactic acid fermentation was attempted using Lactobacillus acidophilus, Streptococcus thermophilus, and Bifidobacterium bifidus. The quality characteristics of the lactic acid-fermented product and its effect on gastrointestinal function in an animal model were examined. The anaerobic fermentation of 1% and 2% GBF yielded lactic acid bacteria at 8.9 +/- 1.0 x 10(8) and 1.6 +/- 0.2 x 10(9) colony-forming units/mL, and it was considered acceptable for consumption by sensory assessment. To determine the effect on gastrointestinal function, Sprague-Dawley rats were fed with three types of diets: a normal chow diet and chow diets supplemented with 10% lactic acid bacteria or a yogurt fermented with 2% GBF (GBFY). The rats fed GBFY for 6 weeks gained less body weight, excreted more fecal mass, and had improved gastrointestinal transit as examined with barium sulfate. The effect of GBFY on colonic epithelial proliferation was investigated through loperamide (LPM)-induced constipation in rats. The rats fed with GBFY for 6 weeks were intraperitoneally administered LPM twice daily for 7 days. GBFY supplementation decreased fecal excretion and moisture content in feces and depleted goblet cells as observed by hematoxylin and eosin stain. However, the rats supplemented with GBFY prior to the LPM administration had enhanced bowel movement, mucin secretion, and production of short-chain fatty acids compared with values for the LPM-alone group. Immunohistochemistry revealed that the GBFY supplement increased the numbers of nuclei stained positively for Ki-67 and extended from the base to the middle zone of crypts. These results indicate that GBFY alleviates constipation via the proliferation of the colonic crypts in LPM-administered rats.

Longitudinal changes in microbiology and clinical periodontal parameters after removal of fixed orthodontic appliances.The aim of this longitudinal study was to monitor patients' microbiological and clinical parameters from bracket placement up to 3 months post-treatment. Twenty-four patients (10 males and 14 females, aged 14.6 ± 1.0 years) were included in this investigation. Microbiology (sub- and supragingival), periodontal probing depth (PPD), bleeding on probing (BOP), and gingival crevicular fluid (GCF) flow were assessed at baseline (T1), at bracket removal (T2), and 3 months post-treatment (T3). A statistical comparison was made over time and between the banded, bonded, and control sites. Repeated measurements on patients were taken into account by modelling the patients as a random factor. Except for PPD and BOP, values were log-transformed before analysis. Corrections for simultaneous hypothesis testing were performed via simulation. The results demonstrated that sub- and supragingival colony-forming units ratio (CFU ratio aerobe/anaerobe) decreased significantly (relatively more anaerobes) at T2 compared with T1. Between T2 and T3 no significant increase in CFU ratio was seen, resulting in a significantly lower CFU ratio at T3 compared with T1 for subgingival plaque. The difference concerning supragingival plaque between T3 and T1 was not significant. Clinical parameters PPD, POB, and GCF flow showed a significant increase between T1 and T2. Between T2 and T3 these variables decreased significantly but remained significantly higher than at T1 [except for BOP values at the bonded sites (P = 0.0646)]. Placement of fixed orthodontic appliances has an influence both on microbial and clinical periodontal parameters, which were only partly normalized, 3 months following the removal of the appliances.

In vitro screening of probiotic lactic acid bacteria and prebiotic glucooligosaccharides to select effective synbiotics.Probiotics and prebiotics have been demonstrated to positively modulate the intestinal microflora and could promote host health. Although some studies have been performed on combinations of probiotics and prebiotics, constituting synbiotics, results on the synergistic effects tend to be discordant in the published works. The first aim of our study was to screen some lactic acid bacteria on the basis of probiotic characteristics (resistance to intestinal conditions, inhibition of pathogenic strains). Bifidobacterium was the most resistant genus whereas Lactobacillus farciminis was strongly inhibited. The inhibitory effect on pathogen growth was strain dependent but lactobacilli were the most effective, especially L. farciminis. The second aim of the work was to select glucooligosaccharides for their ability to support the growth of the probiotics tested. We demonstrated the selective fermentability of oligodextran and oligoalternan by probiotic bacteria, especially the bifidobacteria, for shorter degrees of polymerisation and absence of metabolism by pathogenic bacteria. Thus, the observed characteristics confer potential prebiotic properties on these glucooligosaccharides, to be further confirmed in vivo, and suggest some possible applications in synbiotic combinations with the selected probiotics. Furthermore, the distinctive patterns of the different genera suggest a combination of lactobacilli and bifidobacteria with complementary probiotic effects in addition to the prebiotic ones. These associations should be further evaluated for their synbiotic effects through in vitro and in vivo models.

CFD simulation of gas and non-Newtonian fluid two-phase flow in anaerobic digesters.This paper presents an Eulerian multiphase flow model that characterizes gas mixing in anaerobic digesters. In the model development, liquid manure is assumed to be water or a non-Newtonian fluid that is dependent on total solids (TS) concentration. To establish the appropriate models for different TS levels, twelve turbulence models are evaluated by comparing the frictional pressure drops of gas and non-Newtonian fluid two-phase flow in a horizontal pipe obtained from computational fluid dynamics (CFD) with those from a correlation analysis. The commercial CFD software, Fluent12.0, is employed to simulate the multiphase flow in the digesters. The simulation results in a small-sized digester are validated against the experimental data from literature. Comparison of two gas mixing designs in a medium-sized digester demonstrates that mixing intensity is insensitive to the TS in confined gas mixing, whereas there are significant decreases with increases of TS in unconfined gas mixing. Moreover, comparison of three mixing methods indicates that gas mixing is more efficient than mixing by pumped circulation while it is less efficient than mechanical mixing.

Repetitive domain of Clostridium difficile toxin B exhibits cytotoxic effects on human intestinal epithelial cells and decreases epithelial barrier function.We have used recombinant repetitive domain of Clostridium difficile toxin B obtained from two different strains, rec-TcdB3(10463) and rec-TcdB3(8864) and a model intestinal epithelial cell line(s) to characterize their cytotoxic and cytopathic effect and influence on tight-junction organization. Both recombinant receptor binding domains caused intestinal epithelial cell damage, decreased transepithelial electrical resistance and induced translocation of ZO-1 from tight-junction proteins although less efficiently as holotoxins. Recombinant repetitive TcdB domains also caused stimulation of interleukin IL-8 synthesis in HT-29 cells. This is the first description of glucosyltransferase independent toxicity of TcdB and these C-terminal mediated effects may contribute to the pathophysiology of C. difficile infection.

Analysis of the microflora in the stomach of Mongolian gerbils infected with Helicobacter pylori.Mongolian gerbils are frequently used to study Helicobacter pylori-induced gastritis and its consequences. The presence of some gastric flora with a suppressive effect on H. pylori suggests inhibitory microflora against H. pylori infection. The aim of the present study was to analyze the microflora in the stomach of Mongolian gerbils with H. pylori infection.
H. pylori ureA was detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in the fecal samples of infected Mongolian gerbils. H. pylori was isolated from the gastric mucosa of the gerbils by microaerophilic cultivation. Gastric microflora were isolated by aerobic and anaerobic culture, and the identification of gastric bacterial species was performed by API20E and API20A.
Oral administration of H. pylori TK1402 induced colonization and gastric inflammation of the stomach of the Mongolian gerbils. According to the frequency of detection of H. pylori ureA in fecal samples, the gerbils were divided into three groups (frequently detected, moderately detected and infrequently detected). According to the analysis of the gastric microflora in the frequently and infrequently detected groups, Lactobacillus spp. and Eubacterium limosum were isolated from the former and latter group, respectively.
Some gastric flora, such as Lactobacillus spp., may inhibit colonization by H. pylori.

Characterization of an anaerobic population digesting a model substrate for maize in the presence of trace metals.The influence of a defined trace metal solution and additionally Ni(2+) on anaerobic digestion of biomass was investigated. A novel synthetic model substrate was designed consisting of cellulose, starch and urea as carbon and nitrogen source in a ratio mimicking the basic composition of maize silage. Two independent batch fermentations were carried out over 21 d with the synthetic model substrate in the presence of the trace metal solution. Particularly an increase in nickel concentrations (17 and 34 microM) enhanced methane formation by up to 20%. This increased activity was also corroborated by fluorescence microscopy measurements based on cofactor F(420). The eubacterial and methanogenic population was characterized with the single strand conformational polymorphism analysis and the amplified 16S rDNA restriction analysis of 16S rRNA genes amplified by different primer systems. Nearly the half of the analyzed bacteria were identified as Firmicutes while 70% in this phylum belonged to the class of Clostridiales and 30% to the class of Bacilli. Bacteroides and uncultured bacteria represented each a quarter of the analyzed community. Methanogenic archaea were investigated with ARDRA, too. The hydrogenotrophic Methanoculleus sp. was the dominant genus which is commonly described for maize digestion thus confirming the value of the model substrate.

Clostridiaceae and Enterobacteriaceae as active fermenters in earthworm gut content.The earthworm gut provides ideal in situ conditions for ingested heterotrophic soil bacteria capable of anaerobiosis. High amounts of mucus- and plant-derived saccharides such as glucose are abundant in the earthworm alimentary canal, and high concentrations of molecular hydrogen (H(2)) and organic acids in the alimentary canal are indicative of ongoing fermentations. Thus, the central objective of this study was to resolve potential links between fermentations and active fermenters in gut content of the anecic earthworm Lumbricus terrestris by 16S ribosomal RNA (rRNA)-based stable isotope probing, with [(13)C]glucose as a model substrate. Glucose consumption in anoxic gut content microcosms was rapid and yielded soluble organic compounds (acetate, butyrate, formate, lactate, propionate, succinate and ethanol) and gases (carbon dioxide and H(2)), products indicative of diverse fermentations in the alimentary canal. Clostridiaceae and Enterobacteriaceae were users of glucose-derived carbon. On the basis of the detection of 16S rRNA, active phyla in gut contents included Acidobacteria, Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Chloroflexi, Cyanobacteria, Firmicutes, Gemmatimonadetes, Nitrospirae, Planctomycetes, Proteobacteria, Tenericutes and Verrucomicrobia, taxa common to soils. On the basis of a 16S rRNA gene similarity cutoff of 87.5%, 82 families were detected, 17 of which were novel family-level groups. These findings (a) show the large diversity of soil taxa that might be active during gut passage, (b) show that Clostridiaceae and Enterobacteriaceae (fermentative subsets of these taxa) are selectively stimulated by glucose and might therefore be capable of consuming mucus- and plant-derived saccharides during gut passage and (c) indicate that ingested obligate anaerobes and facultative aerobes from soil can concomitantly metabolize the same source of carbon.

Influence of alemtuzumab on the intestinal Paneth cells and microflora in macaques.Alemtuzumab has been recently introduced for induction therapy in organ transplantation. However, the pathogenesis and molecular mechanism of the impact of such induction therapy on bacterial infections remain to be clarified. We found the alterations of Paneth cells including abnormal Paneth cell granules and expression of lysozyme and defensin 5 in response to lymphocyte depletion by alemtuzumab. Lymphocyte depletion resulted in decreased expression of TNF-alpha, IFN-gamma, IL-10 and TGF-beta in the intestine. The diversity of gut bacteria varied significantly between different times of alemtuzumab treatment. Abnormal expression of granule peptides might result in impairment of host gut microflora. The alterations in bacterial microflora had almost reversed 56days after alemtuzumab treatment, which was consistent with our results that Paneth cells were recovered to secrete antimicrobial peptides to govern gut microflora. These findings indicated the associations between changes of Paneth cell function and gut microflora and supported the important role of Paneth cells to barrier impairment with the use of alemtuzumab in organ transplantation.

Evaluation of antimicrobial activity of probiotic bacteria against Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serovar typhimurium 1344 in a common medium under different environmental conditions.The importance of probiotics in human nutrition has been gaining recognition in recent years. These organisms have been shown to promote human health by enhancing immunological and digestive functions and fighting respiratory tract infections. We propose an improved in vitro model for the study of probiotic antimicrobial activity against enteropathogens, by attempting to re-create, in a common culture medium, environmental growth conditions comparable to those present in the small intestine. A preliminary experiment was carried out in order to find a culture medium able to support both probiotics and pathogens. This was done with the aim of obtaining correct assessment of the interaction under shared growth conditions. BHI medium was selected as the common culture medium and was therefore used in antimicrobial activity assays. The interactions between Salmonella 1344 and Lactobacillus rhamnosus and Lactobacillus reuteri were then assessed at different pH and oxygen availability conditions mimicking the small intestinal environment. L. rhamnosus GG ATCC 53103 (LGG) had the strongest antimicrobial effect, in particular under anaerobic conditions and at lower pH levels. Its antagonistic activity involved both lactic acid and secreted non-lactic acid molecules. Our findings suggest that each probiotic strain has an optimum range of action and should therefore be thoroughly investigated to optimize its use.

Development and validation of a continuous in vitro system reproducing some biotic and abiotic factors of the veal calf intestine.Following the January 2006 European ban of antibiotics used as growth promoters in the veal calf industry, new feed additives are needed in order to maintain animal health and growth performance. As an alternative to in vivo experiments in the testing of such additives, an in vitro system modeling the intestinal ecosystem of the veal calf was developed. Stabilization of the main cultured microbial groups and their metabolic activity were tracked in an in vitro continuous fermentor operated under anaerobiosis, at pH 6.5, and at a temperature of 38.5 degrees C and supplied with one of three different nutritive media (M1, M2, or M3). These media mainly differed in their concentrations of simple and complex carbohydrates and in their lipid sources. In vitro microbial levels and fermentative metabolite concentrations were compared to in vivo data, and the biochemical composition of the nutritive media was compared to that of the veal calf intestinal content. All three nutritive media were able to stabilize anaerobic and facultative anaerobic microflora, lactate-utilizing bacteria, bifidobacteria, lactobacilli, enterococci, and Bacteroides fragilis group bacteria at levels close to in vivo values. The microbiota was metabolically active, with high concentrations of lactate, ammonia, and short-chain fatty acids found in the fermentative medium. Comparison with in vivo data indicated that M3 outperformed M1 and M2 in simulating the conditions encountered in the veal calf intestine. This in vitro system would be useful in the prescreening of new feed additives by studying their effect on the intestinal microbiota levels and fermentative metabolite production.

Biogas from grass silage - Measurements and modeling with ADM1.Mono fermentation of grass silage without the addition of manure was performed over a period of 345days under mesophilic conditions (38 degrees C). A simulation study based on the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) was done in order to show its applicability to lignocellulosic biomass. Therefore, the influent was fractioned by established fodder analysis (Weender analysis and van Soest method). ADM1 was modified with a separate compound of inert decay products similar to the approach of Activated Sludge Model No. 1 (ASM1). Furthermore, a function, which described the influence of solids on the process of hydrolysis, has been integrated to reproduce reliable ammonium concentrations. The model was calibrated by using the modified Nash-Sutcliffe coefficient to evaluate simulation quality. It was possible to fit observed data by changing only hydrogen inhibition constants and the maximum acetate uptake rate. The extended ADM1 model showed good agreement with measurements and was suitable for modeling anaerobic digestion of grass silage.

A mathematical study of a syntrophic relationship of a model of anaerobic digestion process.A mathematical model involving the syntrophic relationship of two major populations of bacteria (acetogens and methanogens), each responsible for a stage of the methane fermentation process is proposed. A detailed qualitative analysis is carried out. The local and global stability analyses of the equilibria are performed. We demonstrate, under general assumptions of monotonicity, relevant from an applied point of view, the global asymptotic stability of a positive equilibrium point which corresponds to the coexistence of acetogenic and methanogenic bacteria.

Selecting the most relevant variables for anaerobic digestion imbalances: two case studies.In this study, a wrapper approach was applied to objectively select the most important variables related to two different anaerobic digestion imbalances, acidogenic states and foaming. This feature selection method, implemented in artificial neural networks (ANN), was performed using input and output data from a fully instrumented pilot plant (1 m3 upflow fixed bed digester). Results for acidogenic states showed that pH, volatile fatty acids, and inflow rate were the most relevant variables. Results for foaming showed that inflow rate and total organic carbon were among the relevant variables, both of which were related to the feed loading of the digester. Because there is not a complete agreement on the causes of foaming, these results highlight the role of digester feeding patterns in the development of foaming.

PAH fate during the anaerobic digestion of contaminated sludge: Do bioavailability and/or cometabolism limit their biodegradation?The anaerobic removal of 13 Polycyclic Aromatic Hydrocarbons (PAHs) was measured in five continuous anaerobic digestors with different feed sludge, in which abiotic losses were neglected. These feeds were chosen to generate different levels of PAH bioavailability and cometabolism within the reactors. Based on the accurate modelling of PAH sorption in sludge, the aqueous fraction (including free and sorbed-to-dissolved-and-colloidal-matter PAHs) was demonstrated to be bioavailable, which validated a widespread assumption about micropollutants bioavailability in sludge. It was also demonstrated that bioavailability is not the only influencing factor. Indeed, PAHs biodegradation resulted from a combination of bioavailability and cometabolism. An equation adapted from Criddle (1993, The Kinetics of Cometabolism. Biotechnology and Bioengineering 41, 1048-1056) that takes into account both mechanisms was shown to fit the experimental data, with dry matter removal rate identified as the criteria for cometabolism. The existence of a threshold of dry matter cometabolism was suggested, below which PAHs removal would not be possible. The parameters of the Criddle equation were demonstrated to depend on PAH molecular structure, and the results suggest that they would also be influenced by substrate composition and microbial population. This research provided original outcomes for the assessment of micropollutants fate. Indeed, the understanding of the driving mechanisms was improved, which has implications for the optimization of micropollutants removal.

The prebiotic, oligofructose-enriched inulin modulates the faecal metabolite profile: an in vitro analysis.Health benefits of prebiotic administration have been judged mainly from the increased numbers of bifidobacteria and the enhanced production of short-chain fatty acids in the colon. Only a few studies have focused on the capacity of prebiotics to decrease the proteolytic fermentation, which might contribute to health as well.
The influence of the prebiotic oligofructose-enriched inulin (OF-IN) on the pattern of volatile organic compounds was characterized using an in vitro faecal model. Faecal slurries, obtained from healthy subjects, were anaerobically incubated at 37 °C with and without different doses of OF-IN (2.5, 5, 10, or 20 mg) and changes in the metabolite pattern and pH were evaluated. A total of 107 different volatile organic compounds were identified and classified according to their chemical classes. The concentration of esters and acids significantly increased with increasing doses of OF-IN. Similar effects were observed for some aldehydes. To the contrary, OF-IN dose-dependently inhibited the formation of S-compounds. Also, the generation of other protein fermentation metabolites such as phenolic compounds was inhibited in the presence of OF-IN.
Our results confirmed a clear dose-dependent stimulation of saccharolytic fermentation. Importantly, a significant decrease in toxic protein fermentation metabolites such as sulphides attended these effects.

Mathematical modelling of carbohydrate degradation by human colonic microbiota.The human colon is an anaerobic ecosystem that remains largely unexplored as a result of its limited accessibility and its complexity. Mathematical models can play a central role for a better insight into its dynamics. In this context, this paper presents the development of a mathematical model of carbohydrate degradation. Our aim was to provide an in silico approach to contribute to a better understanding of the fermentation patterns in such an ecosystem. Our mathematical model is knowledge-based, derived by writing down mass-balance equations. It incorporates physiology of the intestine, metabolic reactions and transport phenomena. The model was used to study various nutritional scenarios and to assess the role of the mucus on the system behavior. Model simulations provided an adequate qualitative representation of the human colon. Our model is complementary to experimental studies on human colonic fermentation, which, of course, is not meant to replace. It may be helpful to gain insight on questions that are still difficult to elucidate by experimentation and suggest future experiments.

The effect of upper mesophilic temperature and feed-to-seed ratio on batch anaerobic digestion systems.This study investigated the effect of upper mesophilic temperature and feed-to-seed (F/S) ratio on anaerobic digestion using four 3.5 L batch-scale reactors. Initially, eight F/S ratios, ranging from 10/90 to 90/10, were explored at 37 degrees C, using a mixture of primary and secondary municipal sludge as feed. It was observed that the systems with low F/S ratios (40/60 and below) showed a stable performance while those with high ratios (50/50 and above) experienced the effect of organic overloading indicated by reduced removal of volatile solids (VS) in the feed, a drop in pH, volatile fatty acid (VFA) accumulation during the first 10 days of operation, and total gas production markedly lower than the corresponding theoretical values. Subsequently, the effect of temperature, in the 37 to 49 degrees C range, was studied at an F/S ratio of 20/80. Results revealed that an increase in temperature between 37 and 43 degrees C had a rather minimal effect on the process, with the exception of a moderate increase in total gas production. A further rise in the temperature in the 45 to 49 degrees C range however appeared to trigger an adverse effect evidenced by enhanced percent VSS reduction (possibly the result of cell lysis), VFA accumulation and an increase in the non-VFA total organic carbon (TOC) content. Therefore, it can be concluded that an operating temperature in the 37 to 43 degrees C range resulted in a stable and satisfactory reactor performance.

Copper enhances the activity and salt resistance of mixed methane-oxidizing communities.Effluents of anaerobic digesters are an underestimated source of greenhouse gases, as they are often saturated with methane. A post-treatment with methane-oxidizing bacterial consortia could mitigate diffuse emissions at such sites. Semi-continuously fed stirred reactors were used as model systems to characterize the influence of the key parameters on the activity of these mixed methanotrophic communities. The addition of 140 mg L(-1) NH (4) (+) -N had no significant influence on the activity nor did a temperature increase from 28 degrees C to 35 degrees C. On the other hand, addition of 0.64 mg L(-1) of copper(II) increased the methane removal rate by a factor of 1.5 to 1.7 since the activity of particulate methane monooxygenase was enhanced. The influence of different concentrations of NaCl was also tested, as effluents of anaerobic digesters often contain salt levels up to 10 g NaCl L(-1). At a concentration of 11 g NaCl L(-1), almost no methane-oxidizing activity was observed in the reactors without copper addition. Yet, reactors with copper addition exhibited a sustained activity in the presence of NaCl. A colorimetric test based on naphthalene oxidation showed that soluble methane monooxygenase was inhibited by copper, suggesting that the particulate methane monooxygenase was the active enzyme and thus more salt resistant. The results obtained demonstrate that the treatment of methane-saturated effluents, even those with increased ammonium (up to 140 mg L(-1) NH (4) (+) -N) and salt levels, can be mitigated by implementation of methane-oxidizing microbial consortia.

Application of ADM1 model to a full-scale anaerobic digester under dynamic organic loading conditions.The IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) was used to simulate the full-scale anaerobic sludge digester of Ankara Central Wastewater Treatment Plant. The digester is a completely mixed, once through continuous flow type which is being fed with a primary and secondary sludge mixture. The variability and unpredicted nature of the primary sludge composition was expected to challenge the model. A one-year dynamic data set from the digester was used for model calibration and validation in the study. The standard ADM1 model was corrected in the study with regard to nitrogen and carbon mass balances. A good correlation between the measured and simulated data was obtained for biogas yield, total volatile fatty acids and pH after heuristically calibrating stoichiometric and kinetic parameters of the ADM1 model. The simulation is sensitive to influent composition.

Combination of extremum-seeking algorithms with effective hydraulic handling of equalization tanks to control anaerobic digesters.The benefits of upgrading extremum-seeking controllers with an effective exploitation of the buffer capacity of equalization tanks have been investigated and applied to anaerobic digesters. In this respect, a Fuzzy-based supervisory module that monitors the state of the equalization tank has been designed and built on top of an extremum-seeking algorithm in charge of automatically regulating the wastewater fed into the anaerobic digester. The extremum-seeking controller guarantees good disturbance rejection and methane production around an upper limit set-point. The on-top Fuzzy module optimizes the long-term methane production by modifying this upper limit set-point as a function of the state of the equalization tank. A systematic simulation study has been carried out to evaluate the performance of the proposed control solution. Thus, on the basis of existing simulation benchmarks for assessment of control strategies in wastewater treatment plants, a dedicated simulation protocol for anaerobic digesters has been defined and implemented. Simulation results have shown that, compared with manual operation, effluent quality and methane production improvements of 10-15% are achieved using the proposed control approach.

Predicting VFA formation by dark fermentation of particulate substrates.This study presents a mathematical model for predicting volatile fatty acid (VFA) production by dark fermentation of complex particulate substrates of biomass origin. This model is based on the premise that degradable components of such substrates are first hydrolyzed into soluble monomers, which are then fermented to liquid and gaseous end products. The model considered cellulose and hemicellulose as the degradable components of typical biomass-based organic substrates; and volatile fatty acids, hydrogen, and carbon dioxide as the end products. Hydrolysis of the particulate forms of the components is modeled by a surface-limiting rate equation, and the formation of end products is modeled following the guidelines of the anaerobic digestion model (ADM1). The model was calibrated and validated using experimental COD and VFA data from six batch reactors where, cattle manure was tested as a representative biomass-based substrate. The model predictions agreed well with the temporal trend in the experimental data, with overall r(2) of 0.85 for COD, 0.82 for acetic acid, 0.72 for butyric acid, and 0.42 for propionic acid.

Flavan-3-ol C-glycosides--preparation and model experiments mimicking their human intestinal transit.In order to study the human intestinal transit of flavan-3-ol C-glycosides, several C-glycosyl derivatives were prepared by non-enzymatic reaction of (+)-catechin with α-D-glucose, α-D-galactose and α-D-rhamnose, respectively. In contrast to literature data, we propose that the reaction mechanism proceeds in analogy to the rearrangement of flavan-3-ols during epimerization under alkaline conditions. Four of the 12 synthesized flavan-3-ol C-glycosides were incubated under aerobic conditions at 37°C using saliva (2 min) and simulated gastric juice (3 h). To simulate human intestine, the C-glycosides were also incubated under anaerobic conditions at 37°C both in human ileostomy fluid (10 h) and colostomy fluid (24 h), respectively. The flavan-3-ol C-glycosides under study, i.e. (+)-epicatechin 8-C-β-D-glucopyranoside (1a), (+)-epicatechin 6-C-β-D-glucopyranoside (1d), (+)-catechin 6-C-β-D-galactopyranoside (2b), (+)-catechin 6-C-β-D-rhamnopyranoside (3b) were analyzed in the incubation samples by HPLC-DAD and HPLC-DAD-MS/MS. They were found to be stable in the course of incubation in saliva, simulated gastric juice and ileostomy fluid and underwent degradation in colostomy fluid. While the 6-C-β-D-glucopyranoside 1d was completely metabolized between 2 and 4 h, decomposition of the 6-C-β-D-galactopyranoside 2b reached only 16 ± 2% within 4 h of incubation. Linear degradation rates of 1d and 2b in colostomy fluid differed significantly. As microbial metabolism of flavan-3-ols is known not to be influenced by the stereochemistry of the aglycon, varying degradation rates are ascribed to the effect of the sugar moiety. Based on these results we assume that flavan-3-ol C-glycosides pass through the upper gastrointestinal tract (oral cavity, stomach and small intestine) unmodified and are then metabolized by the colonic microflora.

Propionibacterium acidipropionici CRL1198 influences the production of acids and the growth of bacterial genera stimulated by inulin in a murine model of cecal slurries.Different attempts have been made to improve the health status of humans and animals by increasing the intestinal production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) derived from non-digestible carbohydrates fermentation. In this paper we investigate the in vitro production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) after addition of inulin, propionibacteria or a combination of both in an experimental model of mice cecal slurries. The development of bacterial genera which are usually stimulated by inulin addition was also investigated. According to our experimental data, acetic acid and butyric acids concentrations increased after incubation in slurries that had no supplements. By contrast, butyric acid concentrations remained in the basal value when supplements were used. Fermentation of only inulin did not increase the concentration of total SCFA. Propionibacterium acidipropionici CRL1198 improved the production of propionic acid in cecal slurries when it was added alone, but the effect was more noticeable in the combination with inulin. A modulation of the global fermentative activity of the cecal microbiota was evidenced by the increase on the ratio propionic acid/SCFA in supplementations with propionibacteria. Statistical analysis of data demonstrated that samples from homogenates with propionibacteria alone or combined with inulin belong to the same cluster. The presence of propionibacteria limited the growth of Bacteroides fragilis and Clostridium hystoliticum groups in slurries with and without inulin. The growth of Bifidobacterium was not modified and the stimulating effect of inulin on lactobacilli disappeared in the presence of propionibacteria. In conclusion, dairy propionibacteria are potential candidates to develop new functional foods helpful to ensure the intestinal production of SCFA during inulin supplementation and to control the overgrowth of bacteria belonging to Bacteroides and Clostridium genera.

Nitrogen fertiliser production based on biogas - energy input, environmental impact and land use.The aim of the present paper was to investigate the land use, environmental impact and fossil energy use when using biogas instead of natural gas in the production of nitrogen fertilisers. The biogas was assumed to be produced from anaerobic digestion of ley grass and maize. The calculations showed that 1 ha of agricultural land in south-west Sweden can produce 1.7 metric ton of nitrogen in the form of ammonium nitrate per year from ley grass, or 3.6 ton from maize. The impact on global warming, from cradle to gate, was calculated to be lower when producing nitrogen fertiliser from biomass compared with natural gas. Eutrophication and acidification potential was higher in the biomass scenarios. The greatest advantage of the biomass systems however lies in the potential to reduce agriculture's dependency on fossil fuels. In the biomass scenarios, only 2-4 MJ of primary fossil energy was required, while 35 MJ/kgN was required when utilising natural gas.

Bioaugmentation for improved recovery of anaerobic digesters after toxicant exposure.Bioaugmentation was investigated as a method to decrease the recovery period of anaerobic digesters exposed to a transient toxic event. Two sets of laboratory-scale digesters (SRT = 10 days, OLR = 2 g COD/L-day), started with inoculum from a digester stabilizing synthetic municipal wastewater solids (MW) and synthetic industrial wastewater (WW), respectively, were transiently exposed to the model toxicant, oxygen. Bioaugmented digesters received 1.2 g VSS/L-day of an H2-utilizing culture for which the archaeal community was analyzed. Soon after oxygen exposure, the bioaugmented digesters produced 25-60% more methane than non-bioaugmented controls (p < 0.05). One set of digesters produced lingering high propionate concentrations, and bioaugmentation resulted in significantly shorter recovery periods. The second set of digesters did not display lingering propionate, and bioaugmented digesters recovered at the same time as non-bioaugmented controls. The difference in the effect of bioaugmentation on recovery may be due to differences between microbial communities of the digester inocula originally employed. In conclusion, bioaugmentation with an H(2)-utilizing culture is a potential tool to decrease the recovery period, decrease propionate concentration, and increase biogas production of some anaerobic digesters after a toxic event. Digesters already containing rapidly adaptable microbial communities may not benefit from bioaugmentation, whereas other digesters with poorly adaptable microbial communities may benefit greatly.

Characterization of metabolism and in vitro permeability study of notoginsenoside R1 from Radix notoginseng.As a main and characteristic constituent in Radix notoginseng, the fate of notoginsenoside R1 (NGR1) in human is largely unknown. The present study investigated, for the first time, NGR1 metabolism by human intestinal bacteria and liver subcellular fractions, and permeability properties of NGR1 and resultant metabolites on a Caco-2 model. Samples were qualitatively analyzed using HPLC-MS/MS and quantitatively determined using HPLC-UV. When incubated with pooled human intestinal bacteria anaerobically, NGR1 showed biphasic elimination: an insignificant decrease in the first 8 h followed by a rapid elimination during 8-48 h. Four metabolites, three unambiguously identified as ginsenosides Rg1, F1 and 20(S)-protopanaxatriol formed via stepwise deglycosylation, and one tentatively assigned as a dehydrogenated protopanaxatriol with transformation occurring at the tetracyclic triterpenoid skeleton, were produced sequentially. Rg1 and F1 were formed transiently at low apparent velocities, while 20(S)-protopanaxatriol was the major metabolite with a formation rate close to the rate of NGR1 elimination and a low elimination rate. NGR1 remained intact in human liver S9 or microsomes over 1 h. Transport study of NGR1 and its metabolites revealed an ascending permeability order with stepwise deglycosylation. Taken together, the results revealed a determinant role of intestinal bacteria in the overall disposition and potential bioactivity of NGR1 in human.

Modeling biogas production from organic fraction of MSW co-digested with MSWI ashes in anaerobic bioreactors.This study aims at investigating the effects of MSW incinerator fly ash (FA) and bottom ash (BA) on the anaerobic co-digestion of OFMSW with FA or BA. It also simulates the biogas production from various dosed and control bioreactors. Results showed that suitable ashes addition (FA/MSW 10 and 20 g L(-1) and BA/MSW 100 g L(-1)) could improve the MSW anaerobic digestion and enhance the biogas production rates. FA/MSW 20 g L(-1) bioreactor had the higher biogas production and rate implying the potential option for MSW anaerobic co-digestion. Modeling studies showed that exponential plot simulated better for FA/MSW 10 g L(-1) and control bioreactors while Gaussian plot was applicable for FA/MSW 20 g L(-1) one. Linear and exponential plot of descending limb both simulated better for BA/MSW 100 g L(-1) bioreactor. Modified Gompertz plot showed higher correlation of biogas accumulation than exponential rise to maximum plot for all bioreactors.

Response surface analysis of effects of hydraulic retention time and influent feed concentration on performance of an UASFF bioreactor.The interactive effects of hydraulic retention time (HRT) and influent chemical oxygen demand (COD(in)) on the performance of an up-flow anaerobic sludge fixed film (UASFF) bioreactor treating palm oil mill effluent (POME) was studied. Anaerobic digestion of POME was modeled and analyzed with two variables i.e. HRT and COD(in). Experiments were conducted based on a general factorial design and analyzed using response surface methodology (RSM). The region of exploration for digestion of POME was taken as the area enclosed by HRT (1-6 days) and COD(in) (5260-34,725 mg/l) boundaries. Eight dependent parameters were either directly measured or calculated as response. Increase in the variables resulted in decrease in COD removal efficiency, solid retention time (SRT) and sludge retention factor (SRF) and increase of COD removal rate, volatile fatty acid to alkalinity ratio (VFA/Alk), CO(2) percentage in biogas and methane production rate. The value of the maximum specific microbial growth rate (micro(m)) determined through the equation that correlated organic loading rate (OLR) and mu (calculated by quadratic model for SRF) was found to be 0.153 d(-1). This value was close to that obtained using Chen and Hashimoto kinetic equation (0.207 d(-1)) in a previous study. The present study provides valuable information about interrelations of quality and process parameters in POME digestion using a UASFF bioreactor.

Analysis of a microbial electrochemical cell using the proton condition in biofilm (PCBIOFILM) model.Common to all microbial electrochemical cells (MXCs) are the anode-respiring bacteria (ARB), which transfer electrons to an anode and release protons that must transport out of the biofilm. Here, we develop a novel modeling platform, Proton Condition in BIOFILM (PCBIOFILM), with a structure geared towards mechanistically explaining: (1) how the ARB half reaction produces enough acid to inhibit the ARB by low pH; (2) how the diffusion of alkalinity carriers (phosphates and carbonates) control the pH gradients in the biofilm anode; (3) how increasing alkalinity attenuates pH gradients and increases current; and (4) why carbonates enable higher current density than phosphates. Analysis of literature data using PCBIOFILM supports the hypothesis that alkalinity limits the maximum current density for MXCs. An alkalinity criterion for eliminating low-pH limitation - 12 mgCaCO(3)/mg BOD--implies that a practical MXC can achieve a maximum current density with an effluent quality comparable to anaerobic digestion.

Comparative toxicological studies of distillery effluent treatments such as UASB reactor followed by an oxidizer unit using Cyprinus carpio fish.The aim of the present study was to evaluate the acute toxicity of anaerobically treated distillery effluent and oxidized effluent on freshwater fish, Cyprinus carpio. The untreated distillery effluent (Sample A) was treated with up-flow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor (Sample B) and followed by an oxidizer system (Sample C and D) under optimized conditions. The comparative acute toxicity of Sample A and treated effluents (Sample B, C and D) was studied using Cyprinus carpio (common carp) as a model fish for various exposure times (24 to 96 h) after suitable dilutions. The parameters for toxicity determination included assessment of behavioural response of the fish under study and their mortality study, and histopathological analysis. The behavioural response parameters showed prominent changes as erratic swimming activity, increase in opercular movement, jerk and violent reaction, loss of equilibrium, and aggressiveness in fish when exposed to varying concentrations of distillery effluent. The prominent features of death were respiratory distress, paralysis and loss of equilibrium. The mortality study involved calculation of median lethal toxicity (LC50) using static bioassay method. The histopathological analysis of tissues like gills, intestine and kidney of exposed fish showed varied degrees of damage, which increased with increasing the strength of the distillery effluent. Thus, the present study underscores the effectiveness of the two-step process (anaerobic treatment followed by oxidation) for the treatment of distillery effluent in terms of significantly lesser dilution requirements (about 5-fold lesser as compared to the untreated effluent) before discharging the distillery effluent safely to the ecosystem.

[Anaerobic co-digestion of corn stalk and vermicompost].The characteristics of corn stalk digested alone at different total solid (TS) loading rates and co-digestion of various proportions of corn stalk and vermicompost were investigated by batch model at 35 degrees C +/- 1 degrees C. The organic loading rates (OLRs) studied were in the range of 1.2%-6.0% TS and increasing proportions of vermicompost from 20% to 80% TS. A maximum methane yield of corn stalk digested alone was 217.60 mL/g obtained at the TS loading rate of 4.8%. However, when the TS loading rate was 6.0%, the anaerobic system was acidified and the lowest pH value was 5.10 obtained on day 4 and the biogas productivity decreased. Furthermore, co-digestion of vermicompost and corn stalk in varying proportions were investigated at constant of 6.0% TS. Co-digestion with vermicompost improved the biodegradability of corn stalk and the methane yield was improved by 4.42%-58.61%, and led to higher pH values, higher volatile fatty acids (VFAs) concentration and lower alkalinity content compared with corn stalk digested alone. The maximum biogas yield and methane yield of 410.30 mL/g and 259. 35 mL/g were obtained for 40% vermicompost and 60% corn stalk respectively. Compared with corn stalk digested alone, co-digested with vermicompost didn' t affect methane content and the fermentation type, but promoted the destruction of crystalline of cellulose and the highest destruction rate was 29.36% for 40% vermicompost and 60% corn stalk. Therefore, adding vermicompost was beneficial for the decomposition and increasing the biotransformation rate of corn stalk.

Hypoxia: an alarm signal during intestinal inflammation.Intestinal epithelial cells that line the mucosal surface of the gastrointestinal tract are positioned between an anaerobic lumen and a highly metabolic lamina propria. As a result of this unique anatomy, intestinal epithelial cells function within a steep physiologic oxygen gradient relative to other cell types. Furthermore, during active inflammatory disease such as IBD, metabolic shifts towards hypoxia are severe. Studies in vitro and in vivo have shown that the activation of hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF) serves as an alarm signal to promote the resolution of inflammation in various mouse models of disease. Amelioration of disease occurs, at least in part, through transcriptional upregulation of nonclassic epithelial barrier genes. There is much interest in harnessing hypoxia-inducible pathways, including stabilizing HIF directly or via inhibition of prolyl hydroxylase enzymes, for therapy of IBD. In this Review, we discuss the signaling pathways involved in the regulation of hypoxia and discuss how hypoxia may serve as an endogenous alarm signal for the presence of mucosal inflammatory disease. We also discuss the pros and cons of targeting these pathways to treat patients with IBD.

Increased gut absorptive capacity in rats with severe head injury after feeding with probiotics.The absorptive capacity of the gut is decreased after severe head injury (SHI), and this may be related to poor recovery. Probiotics may be a promising approach to improving gut absorption. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of probiotics on gut absorptive capacity (GAC) after SHI.
A rat model in which SHI was induced by air percussion was used. One hundred fourteen Sprague-Dawley rats were randomized into three groups: SHI followed by standard enteral nutrition (group A); SHI followed by standard enteral nutrition plus probiotics (group B); and standard chow diet ad libitum (group C, sham-operated). The enteral diets were infused for 14 d after SHI.
SHI induced weight loss and decreased the serum concentration of D-xylose and the apparent protein digestibility. Probiotics significantly improved GAC after SHI. Apparent protein digestibility and the concentration of D-xylose were lower in group A than in B or C after 14 d. The rats receiving probiotics showed less weight loss than group A. SHI induced intestinal flora dysfunction and a decrease in villus height and surface area. Digestive enzyme activities and gut motion were also depressed significantly, and these changes were closely related to the decrease in GAC. Probiotics increased villus height and surface area; Escherichia coli counts decreased significantly, and anaerobic counts increased.
Probiotics improve the GAC after SHI, perhaps because of enhanced villus surface area, and correction of intestinal flora dysfunction.

Anaerobic digestion of specified risk materials with cattle manure for biogas production.Biogas production from anaerobic digestion (AD) of specified risk materials (SRM) co-digested with cattle manure was assessed in a 3 x 2 factorial design. SRM replaced manure at 0 (control), 10% or 25% (w/w) as the substrate fed to six 2-L biodigesters maintained at 37 degrees C or 55 degrees C. Digesters were fed substrate (30 g L(-1) total volatile solids) at 6-d intervals for 90 d, with a retention time of 30 d. Keratin (<20mg) was added to each digester to model the degradation of beta-sheet rich proteins. Methane production was measured daily, and effluent was collected at feeding to monitor SRM degradation using real-time PCR analysis of bovine-specific DNA fragments. Compared with control, methane production increased by 83% or 161% (P<0.05) with 10% or 25% SRM at 37 degrees C, and by 45% and 87%, respectively, at 55 degrees C (P<0.05). Bovine DNA degradation over 6d was higher (P<0.05) at 37 degrees C as compared to 55 degrees C. Dry matter degradation of keratin at 37 degrees C decreased with increasing SRM concentration (P<0.05), whereas at 55 degrees C no difference between treatments was observed (P>0.05). Inclusion of SRM increases the production of methane during the anaerobic digestion of manure and may offer a means of deriving economic value from the disposal of SRM.

Influence of low temperature thermal pre-treatment on sludge solubilisation, heavy metal release and anaerobic digestion.In this work, the influence of a low temperature (70-90 degrees C) thermal treatment on anaerobic digestion is studied. Not only the increase in biogas production is investigated, but attention is also paid to the solubilisation of the main organic (proteins, carbohydrates and volatile fatty acids) and inorganic (heavy metals, S and P) sludge constituents during thermal treatment and the breakdown of the organic components during the subsequent anaerobic digestion. Taking into account the effects of the treatment on the sludge composition is of prime importance to evaluate its influence on the subsequent anaerobic digestion and biogas production using predictive models. It was seen that organic and inorganic compounds are efficiently solubilised during thermal treatment. In general, a higher temperature and a longer treatment time are beneficial for the release. The efficiency of the subsequent anaerobic digestion slightly decreased for sludge pre-treated at 70 degrees C. At higher pre-treatment temperatures, the biogas production increased significantly, up to a factor 11 for the 60 min treatment at 90 degrees C.

Modelling of slaughterhouse solid waste anaerobic digestion: determination of parameters and continuous reactor simulation.A model based on the work of Angelidaki et al. (1993) was applied to simulate the anaerobic biodegradation of ruminal contents. In this study, two fractions of solids with different biodegradation rates were considered. A first-order kinetic was used for the easily biodegradable fraction and a kinetic expression that is function of the extracellular enzyme concentration was used for the slowly biodegradable fraction. Batch experiments were performed to obtain an accumulated methane curve that was then used to obtain the model parameters. For this determination, a methodology derived from the "multiple-shooting" method was successfully used. Monte Carlo simulations allowed a confidence range to be obtained for each parameter. Simulations of a continuous reactor were performed using the optimal set of model parameters. The final steady-states were determined as functions of the operational conditions (solids load and residence time). The simulations showed that methane flow peaked at a flow rate of 0.5-0.8 Nm(3)/d/m(reactor)(3) at a residence time of 10-20 days. Simulations allow the adequate selection of operating conditions of a continuous reactor.

Effect of leachate injection modes on municipal solid waste degradation in anaerobic bioreactor.Three pilots simulated landfill bioreactors were used to investigate the effect of leachate injection modes on anaerobic digestion and biogas production from municipal solid waste. The technical modes used to increase waste moisture consisted of an initial saturation of the waste by flushing with leachate followed by a quick drainage, or weekly leachate injections with two different rates. The results confirmed that increasing moisture content is a key parameter to boost the biological reactions. Weekly leachate injection with high flow rate led to better results than the initial saturation of the waste in terms of biogas production kinetics. Water percolation was found to be an important factor to accelerate the degradation of solid waste. However, a modelling of the collected data by Gompertz model clearly showed that the intrinsic biogas potential determined on the initial solid waste was not reached with any of the progressive leachate injection modes.

Xylo-oligosaccharides enhance the growth of bifidobacteria and Bifidobacterium lactis in a simulated colon model.A semi-continuous, anaerobic colon simulator, with four vessels mimicking the conditions of the human large intestine, was used to study the fermentation of xylo-oligosaccharides (XOS). Three XOS compounds and a xylan preparation were fermented for 48 hours by human colonic microbes. Fructo-oligosaccharides (FOS) were used as a prebiotic reference. As a result of the fermentation, the numbers of Bifidobacterium increased in all XOS and xylan simulations when compared to the growth observed in the baseline simulations, and increased levels of Bifidobacterium lactis were measured with the two XOS compounds that had larger distribution of the degree of polymerisation. Fermentation of XOS and xylan increased the microbial production of short chain fatty acids in the simulator vessels; especially the amounts of butyrate and acetate were increased. XOS was more efficient than FOS in increasing the numbers of B. lactis in the colonic model, whereas FOS increased the Bifidobacterium longum numbers more. The selective fermentation of XOS by B. lactis has been demonstrated in pure culture studies, and these results further indicate that the combination of B. lactis and XOS would form a successful, selective synbiotic combination.

New framework for standardized notation in wastewater treatment modelling.Many unit process models are available in the field of wastewater treatment. All of these models use their own notation, causing problems for documentation, implementation and connection of different models (using different sets of state variables). The main goal of this paper is to propose a new notational framework which allows unique and systematic naming of state variables and parameters of biokinetic models in the wastewater treatment field. The symbols are based on one main letter that gives a general description of the state variable or parameter and several subscript levels that provide greater specification. Only those levels that make the name unique within the model context are needed in creating the symbol. The paper describes specific problems encountered with the currently used notation, presents the proposed framework and provides additional practical examples. The overall result is a framework that can be used in whole plant modelling, which consists of different fields such as activated sludge, anaerobic digestion, sidestream treatment, membrane bioreactors, metabolic approaches, fate of micropollutants and biofilm processes. The main objective of this consensus building paper is to establish a consistent set of rules that can be applied to existing and most importantly, future models. Applying the proposed notation should make it easier for everyone active in the wastewater treatment field to read, write and review documents describing modelling projects.

Model development and simulation for predicting risk of foaming in anaerobic digestion systems.Although there is not a complete agreement on the causes of foaming in anaerobic digestion, experts and operators do have valuable empirical knowledge of key factors. Based on this knowledge, a model for calculating the risk of foaming in anaerobic digestion systems due to microbiological causes has been developed. Organic loading rate, variation in organic loading rate, and the presence of filamentous microorganisms in the activated sludge system, used as a feed source for the digester, have been selected as the inputs of a knowledge-based model designed to provide as output the risk of foaming in an anaerobic digester. The performance of the model is demonstrated by means of a case study using the IWA Benchmark Simulation Model No. 2 as a framework, where risk of foaming is used as a new evaluation criterion. The simulated results of an open-loop configuration and two closed-loop control strategies illustrate the usefulness of this knowledge-based approach as a means of estimating the risk of foaming in anaerobic digestion.

Microbial colonization drives expansion of IL-1 receptor 1-expressing and IL-17-producing gamma/delta T cells.IL-17 cytokine production by the Th17 T cell subset is regulated by intestinal commmensals. We show that microbial colonization also regulates innate IL-17 production. A population of CD62L(-) gamma/delta T cells, in particular a lineage expressing the IL-1 receptor 1 (IL-1R1), can be quickly activated by microbes to produce IL-17. Antibiotic treatment and monocolonization of mice suggest that specific commensals-but not metronidazole-sensitive anaerobes like Bacteroides species-are required for maintaining IL-1R1(+) gamma/delta T cells. Signaling through the guanine nucleotide exchange factor VAV1, but not through Toll-like receptors or antigen presentation pathways, is essential for inducing IL-1R1(+) gamma/delta T cells. Furthermore, IL-1R1(+) gamma/delta T cells are a potential source of IL-17 that can be activated by IL-23 and IL-1 in both infectious and noninfectious settings in vitro and in vivo. Thus, commensals orchestrate the expansion of phenotypically distinct gammadelta T cells, and innate immunity is a three-way interaction between host, pathogens, and microbiota.

Methane production from rice straw with acclimated anaerobic sludge: effect of phosphate supplementation.Rice straw particles were directly used as substrate for anaerobic digestion with acclimated sludge under room temperature and different levels of phosphate. Two obvious biogas production peaks were observed for all reactors, with biogas or methane yields of (0.33-0.35)m(3)/kg-VS loaded or (0.27-0.29)m(3) CH(4)/kg-VS loaded and average methane contents of 75.9-78.2%. A separated two-stage first-order kinetic model was developed in this study and showed a good fit to the experimental data when this complicated process was divided into two stages. The average biogas and methane production rate constants were (0.027-0.031)d(-1) and (0.028-0.033)d(-1), respectively, increased by 2-3 times in the second stages than those in the first. The results indicated that an adequate level of phosphate addition (465 mg-P/L) could accelerate the biogasification process: 7-13 days earlier appearance of the two peaks and shorter time needed for complete biogasification of rice straw.

Modeling effects of granules on the start-up of anaerobic digestion of dairy wastewater with Langmuir and extended Freundlich equations.The effects of granules-inocula on the start-up of anaerobic reactors treating dairy manure were studied in a batch-fed reactor. The effects of start-up period and ratio of granules to feed were analyzed. Results indicated that the effects of start-up period could be described by Langmuir model, while the Extended Freundlich model could be used to model the effects of ratio of granules to feed on cumulative biogas production. In addition, transmission electron microscopes (TEM) and scanning electron microscope analysis were conducted to elucidate the distribution of microbial population and micro-colonies in granules and manure. From the TEM micrographs analyses, the ratios the Syntrophobacter and methanogens in granule and manure were shown to be 1.57 +/- 0.42 and 0.22 +/- 0.20, respectively. These results demonstrated that granules-inocula could reduce the period required for onset of biogas by 25%.

Modelling the anaerobic digestion of wastewater derived from the pressing of orange peel produced in orange juice manufacturing.A kinetic model of the anaerobic digestion of wastewater derived from the pressing of orange peel is proposed. The process was conducted in a laboratory-scale, completely stirred tank reactor operating in batch mode at mesophilic temperature. The anaerobic biodegradability of the physical-chemical pre-treated wastewater was found to be 84%, while methane yield coefficient was 297NmL CH(4)/g COD removed. The mathematical model based on six segregated differential equations simulated the evolution of the concentration of carbon in different forms from biodegradable and non-biodegradable substrate. The transformation steps followed first or second-order kinetics. The kinetic constants corresponding to these stages were found to decrease markedly with the load added to the reactor, showing the occurrence of an inhibition process. The small deviations obtained between the experimental and simulated values demonstrated the suitability of the mathematical model in predicting the behaviour of the microorganisms involved in the anaerobic digestion of this wastewater.

Anaerobic digestion of renewable biomass: thermophilic temperature governs methanogen population dynamics.Beet silage and beet juice were digested continuously as representative energy crops in a thermophilic biogas fermentor for more than 7 years. Fluorescence microscopy of 15 samples covering a period of 650 days revealed that a decrease in temperature from 60 degrees C to 55 degrees C converted a morphologically uniform archaeal population (rods) into a population of methanogens exhibiting different cellular morphologies (rods and coccoid cells). A subsequent temperature increase back to 60 degrees C reestablished the uniform morphology of methanogens observed in the previous 60 degrees C period. In order to verify these observations, representative samples were investigated by amplified rRNA gene restriction analysis (ARDRA) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). Both methods confirmed the temperature-dependent population shift observed by fluorescence microscopy. Moreover, all samples investigated demonstrated that hydrogenotrophic Methanobacteriales dominated in the fermentor, as 29 of 34 identified operational taxonomic units (OTUs) were assigned to this order. This apparent discrimination of acetoclastic methanogens contradicts common models for anaerobic digestion processes, such as anaerobic digestion model 1 (ADM1), which describes the acetotrophic Euryarchaeota as predominant organisms.

Anaerobic mixed-culture fermentation of aqueous ammonia-treated sugarcane bagasse in consolidated bioprocessing.The MixAlco process is an example of consolidated bioprocessing (CBP) in which anaerobic mixed-culture fermentation biochemically converts any biodegradable feedstock into carboxylate salts. Downstream processing thermochemically transforms the resulting salts into mixed alcohol fuels or gasoline. To enhance digestibility, sugarcane bagasse was treated under mild conditions (55 degrees C, 24 h, and 30% aqueous ammonia solution with a loading of 10 mL/g dry biomass). Using NH(4)HCO(3) buffer, the feedstock (80% ammonia-treated sugarcane bagasse/20% chicken manure) was anaerobically fermented by a mixed culture of marine microorganisms at 55 degrees C. Four-stage countercurrent fermentations were performed at various volatile solids loading rates (VSLRs) and liquid residence times (LRTs). The highest acid productivity (1.14 g/(L day)) occurred at a total acid concentration of 29.8 g/L. The highest conversion (65%) occurred at a total acid concentration of 27.6 g/L. The continuum particle distribution model (CPDM) predicted the experimental total acid concentrations and conversions within 4.98% and 10.41%, respectively. When using NH(4)HCO(3) buffer, ammonia pretreatment is an attractive option. The CPDM "map" shows that both high volatile solid conversions (78.8%) and high acid concentrations (32.6 g/L) are possible with 300 g/(L liquid) substrate concentration, 30 days LRT, 2 g/(L day) solid loading rate and NH(4)HCO(3) buffer.

Determination of main components and anaerobic rumen digestibility of aquatic plants in vitro using near-infrared-reflectance spectroscopy.A near-infrared-reflectance (NIR) spectroscopy-based method is established to determine the main components of aquatic plants as well as their anaerobic rumen biodegradability. The developed method is more rapid and accurate compared to the conventional chemical analysis and biodegradability tests. Moisture, volatile solid, Klason lignin and ash in entire aquatic plants could be accurately predicted using this method with coefficient of determination (r(2)) values of 0.952, 0.916, 0.939 and 0.950, respectively. In addition, the anaerobic rumen biodegradability of aquatic plants, represented as biogas and methane yields, could also be predicted well. The algorithm of continuous wavelet transform for the NIR spectral data pretreatment is able to greatly enhance the robustness and predictive ability of the NIR spectral analysis. These results indicate that NIR spectroscopy could be used to predict the main components of aquatic plants and their anaerobic biodegradability.

Dynamics of selected pre-existing polybrominated diphenylethers (PBDEs) in municipal wastewater sludge under anaerobic conditions.Despite the rapid, widespread accumulation of polybrominated diphenylethers (PBDEs) in our surroundings, their environmental fate has been largely unknown. In the present study, most common congeners (BDE 47, 99, 100, 138, 153, 154, 183 and 209) were investigated for their dynamics in municipal sewage sludge under mesophilic condition (37 degrees C). In anaerobic batch cultures, the concentrations of BDE 47, 99, 100 and 209, exhibited significant decreases (by 22-40% from their initial concentration), whereas the levels of the other congeners, BDE 138, 153, 154 and 183, remained stable during a 238-d incubation. However, in a parallel study conducted in a pilot-scale anaerobic sludge digester, loss of all eight congeners was observed. The present study indicates that certain PBDE congeners undergo a significant mass decrease under anaerobic conditions.

Biodegradation of the endogenous residue of activated sludge.This study evaluated the potential biodegradability of the endogenous residue in activated sludge subjected to batch digestion under either non-aerated or alternating aerated and non-aerated conditions. Mixed liquor for the tests was generated in a 200 L pilot-scale aerobic membrane bioreactor (MBR) operated at a 5.2 days SRT. The MBR system was fed a soluble and completely biodegradable synthetic influent composed of sodium acetate as the sole carbon source. This influent, which contained no influent unbiodegradable organic or inorganic materials, allowed to generate sludge composed of essentially two fractions: a heterotrophic biomass X(H) and an endogenous residue X(E), the nitrifying biomass being negligible (less than 2%). The endogenous decay rate and the active biomass fraction of the MBR sludge were determined in 21-day aerobic digestion batch tests by monitoring the VSS and OUR responses. Fractions of X(H) and X(E): 68% and 32% were obtained, respectively, at a 5.2 days SRT. To assess the biodegradability of X(E), two batch digestion units operated at 35 degrees C were run for 90 days using thickened sludge from the MBR system. In the first unit, anaerobic conditions were maintained while in the second unit, alternating aerated and non-aerated conditions were applied. Data for both units showed apparent partial biodegradation of the endogenous residue. Modeling the batch tests indicated endogenous residue decay rates of 0.005 d(-1) and 0.012 d(-1) for the anaerobic unit and the alternating aerated and non-aerated conditions, respectively.

Proteus mirabilis sp. intestinal microflora grow in a dextran sulfate sodium-rich environment.The pathogenic mechanisms responsible for inflammatory bowel disease, especially ulcerative colitis (UC), are poorly understood. As an animal model, the oral administration of dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) induces colitis, which exhibits several clinical and histological features similar to UC. However, the pathogenic factors responsible for DSS-induced colitis and above all, the intestinal microflora in this colitis remain unclear. Therefore, we investigated the relationships between DSS and the intestinal microflora in this study. First, the depolymerization of DSS in mouse feces was analyzed using a pyridylamino-labeling (PA-DSS) and HPLC system. Next, a bacteriological study of the fecal contents using DSS-rich media and subsequently a classification using 16S rRNA were performed. Surprisingly, DSS was depolymerized in mouse feces under aerobic conditions, not under anaerobic conditions. Several kinds of microflora were suggested to be involved in this depolymerization. In particular, Proteus mirabilis can grow in DSS-rich media and has an ability to desulfonate and depolymerize DSS. Then, we produced chemically-modified Mr 2500 DSS from native Mr 5000 DSS. This depolymerized Mr 2500 DSS was administered orally to mice and the colitis was evaluated histologically. The cytotoxicity of Mr 2500 DSS on Caco-2 cells was also investigated. Mr 2500 DSS induced weaker colitis in mice and weak cytotoxicity on Caco-2 cells as compared to Mr 5000 DSS. These findings give insight into the mechanisms responsible for DSS-induced colitis, especially with respect to the molecular mass of DSS.

Optimization of the parameters for decolourization by Aspergillus niger of anaerobically digested distillery spentwash pretreated with polyaluminium chloride.Molasses spentwash from distilleries is characterized by high COD and colour. The fungal decolourization of anaerobically digested molasses spentwash requires significant dilution. In this study, decolourization by Aspergillus niger isolate IITB-V8 was performed on polyaluminium chloride (PAC) treated anaerobically digested spentwash without dilution of wastewater. Optimization of parameters was studied using statistical experimental designs. In the first step, Plackett-Burman design was used for screening the important parameters. Glucose was taken as the carbon source for the growth of A. niger. KH(2)PO(4) and pH were found to be the important factors affecting decolourization. In the second step, Box-Behnken design was used to determine the optimum level of each of the significant parameters. A second-order polynomial was determined by the multiple regression analysis of the experimental data. The optimum values for the important factors to achieve maximum decolourization of 68.4% were 5.5 g/L Glucose, 1.2 g/L KH(2)PO(4) and 5 pH. The determination coefficient (R(2)) was 0.9973, which ensures adequate credibility of the model. The total decolourization obtained after fungal treatment was 86.8% which indicates fungal decolourization after pretreatment with PAC is a viable option for the treatment of digested molasses spentwash.

Identifying health impacts of exposure to copper using transcriptomics and metabolomics in a fish model.Copper (Cu) is a micronutrient essential for the biochemical functioning of numerous processes in vertebrates but is also often present in the aquatic environment at concentrations able to cause adverse health effects in aquatic organisms. This study investigated the signaling pathways mediating the effects of exposure to Cu using a toxicogenomic approach in a fish model, the stickleback ( Gasterosteus aculeatus ). Freshwater-acclimated male fish were exposed via the water to Cu, including at environmentally relevant concentrations (3.2-128 microg of Cu/L for 4 days), and the biological responses explored through analyses of the hepatic transcriptome and metabolome and phenotypic end points, including assessment of DNA damage in blood cells. The Cu exposures resulted in DNA strand breaks in blood cells at all exposure concentrations and alterations in hepatic gene expression and metabolite concentrations in a concentration-dependent manner (from 10 microg of Cu/L). Genes associated with the cholesterol biosynthesis pathway were significantly over-represented and consistently down-regulated (at 128 microg of Cu/L), similar to that occurring in a mouse model for Wilson's disease. Additionally, inductions in metallothionein and catalase were also observed. The concentrations of NAD(+) and lactate increased significantly with the Cu exposure, consistent with a shift toward anaerobic metabolism, and these aligned closely with changes observed in gene expression. The pathways of Cu toxicity identified in our study support the conserved mechanisms of Cu toxicity from lower vertebrates to mammals, provide novel insights into the deleterious effects of Cu in fish, and further demonstrate the utility of fish as environmental sentinels for chemical impacts on both environmental and human health.

The intestinal spirochete Brachyspira pilosicoli attaches to cultured Caco-2 cells and induces pathological changes.Brachyspira pilosicoli is an anaerobic spirochete that has received relatively little study, partly due to its specialized culture requirements and slow growth. This bacterium colonizes the large intestine of various species, including humans; typically, a dense layer of spirochete cells may be found intimately attached by one cell end to the surface of colonic enterocytes. Colonized individuals may develop colitis, but the mechanisms involved are not understood. The current study aimed to develop an in vitro model to investigate this process.
Four strains of B. pilosicoli were incubated at a high multiplicity of infection with monolayers of a human colonic adenocarcinoma cell line (Caco-2 cells). One strain isolated from a pig (95/1000) and one from a human (WesB) attached to the monolayers. Colonization increased with time, with the Caco-2 cell junctions being the initial targets of attachment. By electron microscopy, individual spirochete cells could be seen to have one cell end invaginated into the Caco-2 cell membranes, with the rest of the spirochete draped over the Caco-2 cell surface. After 6 h incubation, the monolayer was covered with a layer of spirochetes. Colonized monolayers demonstrated a time-dependent series of changes: staining with labelled phalloidin identified accumulation of actin at the cell junctions; ZO-1 staining revealed a loss of Caco-2 tight junction integrity; and Hoechst staining showed condensation and fragmentation of nuclear material consistent with apoptosis. Using quantitative reverse transcription PCR, the colonized monolayers demonstrated a significant up-regulation of interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) and IL-8 expression. B. pilosicoli sonicates caused significant up-regulation of IL-1beta, TNF-alpha, and IL-6, but culture supernatants and non-pathogenic Brachyspira innocens did not alter cytokine expression.
The changes induced in the Caco-2 cells provide evidence that B. pilosicoli has pathogenic potential, and give insights into the likely in vivo pathogenesis.

Sulfation of colonic mucins by N-acetylglucosamine 6-O-sulfotransferase-2 and its protective function in experimental colitis in mice.N-Acetylglucosamine 6-O-sulfotransferase-2 (GlcNAc6ST-2) catalyzes the sulfation of mucin-like glycoproteins, which function as ligands for a lymphocyte homing receptor, L-selectin, in the lymph node high endothelial venules (HEVs). We previously showed that GlcNAc6ST-2 is expressed not only in lymph node HEVs but also in the colonic epithelial cells in mice. Here we investigated the regulatory mechanism and physiological significance of colonic expression of GlcNAc6ST-2 in mice. Treatment of a mouse colonic epithelial cell line with butyrate, a short-chain fatty acid produced by anaerobic bacteria, induced GlcNAc6ST-2 expression in the presence of epidermal growth factor. Administration of butyrate in the drinking water stimulated GlcNAc6ST-2 expression in the mouse intestine, indicating that butyrate could serve as a regulatory molecule for the GlcNAc6ST-2 expression in vivo. Immunohistochemical analysis indicated that the sulfation of colonic mucins was greatly diminished in GlcNAc6ST-2-deficient mice. Liquid chromatography coupled to electrospray ionization tandem mass spectrometry of the colonic-mucin O-glycans from wild-type and GlcNAc6ST-2-deficient mice showed that GlcNAc-6-O-sulfation was the predominant sulfate modification of these mucins, and it was exclusively mediated by GlcNAc6ST-2. After colitis induction by dextran sulfate sodium, significantly more leukocyte infiltration was observed in the colon of GlcNAc6ST-2-deficient mice than in that of wild-type mice, indicating that the sulfation of colonic mucins by GlcNAc6ST-2 has a protective function in experimental colitis. These findings indicate that GlcNAc6ST-2, whose expression is regulated by butyrate, is a major sulfotransferase in the biosynthesis of sulfomucins in the mouse colon, where they serve as a mucosal barrier against colonic inflammation.

Long-chain fatty acids inhibition and adaptation process in anaerobic thermophilic digestion: batch tests, microbial community structure and mathematical modelling.Biomass samples taken during the continuous operation of thermophilic anaerobic digestors fed with manure and exposed to successive inhibitory pulses of long-chain fatty acids (LCFA) were characterized in terms of specific metabolic activities and 16S rDNA DGGE profiling of the microbial community structure. Improvement of hydrogenotrophic and acidogenic (beta-oxidation) activity rates was detected upon successive LCFA pulses, while different inhibition effects over specific anaerobic trophic groups were observed. Bioreactor recovery capacity and biomass adaptation to LCFA inhibition were verified. Population profiles of eubacterial and archaeal 16S rDNA genes revealed that no significant shift on microbial community composition took place upon biomass exposure to LCFA. DNA sequencing of predominant DGGE bands showed close phylogenetic affinity to ribotypes characteristic from specific beta-oxidation bacterial genera (Syntrophomonas and Clostridium), while a single predominant syntrophic archaeae was related with the genus Methanosarcina. The hypothesis that biomass adaptation was fundamentally of physiological nature was tested using mathematical modelling, taking the IWA ADM1 as general model. New kinetics considering the relation between LCFA inhibitory substrate concentration and specific biomass content, as an approximation to the adsorption process, improved the model fitting and provided a better insight on the physical nature of the LCFA inhibition process.

A sustainable pathway of cellulosic ethanol production integrating anaerobic digestion with biorefining.Anaerobic digestion (AD) of animal manure is traditionally classified as a treatment to reduce the environmental impacts of odor, pathogens, and excess nutrients associated with animal manure. This report shows that AD also changes the composition of manure fiber and makes it suitable as a cellulosic feedstock for ethanol production. Anaerobically digested manure fiber (AD fiber) contains less hemicellulose (11%) and more cellulose (32%) than raw manure, and has better enzymatic digestibility than switchgrass. Using the optimal dilute alkaline pretreatment (2% sodium hydroxide, 130 degrees C, and 2 h), enzymatic hydrolysis of 10% (dry basis) pretreated AD fiber produces 51 g/L glucose at a conversion rate of 90%. The ethanol fermentation on the hydrolysate has a 72% ethanol yield. The results indicate that 120 million dry tons of cattle manure available annually in the U.S. can generate 63 million dry tons of AD fiber that can produce more than 1.67 billion gallons of ethanol. Integrating AD with biorefining will make significant contribution to the cellulosic ethanol production.

Microbiological fermentation of lignocellulosic biomass: current state and prospects of mathematical modeling.The anaerobic fermentation process has achieved growing importance in practice in recent years. Anaerobic fermentation is especially valuable because its end product is methane, a renewable energy source. While the use of renewable energy sources has accelerated substantially in recent years, their potential has not yet been sufficiently exploited. This is especially true for biogas technology. Biogas is created in a multistage process in which different microorganisms use the energy stored in carbohydrates, fats, and proteins for their metabolism. In order to produce biogas, any organic substrate that is microbiologically accessible can be used. The microbiological process in itself is extremely complex and still requires substantial research in order to be fully understood. Technical facilities for the production of biogas are thus generally scaled in a purely empirical manner. The efficiency of the process, therefore, corresponds to the optimum only in the rarest cases. An optimal production of biogas, as well as a stable plant operation requires detailed knowledge of the biochemical processes in the fermenter. The use of mathematical models can help to achieve the necessary deeper understanding of the process. This paper reviews both the history of model development and current state of the art in modeling anaerobic digestion processes.

Evaluation of recombinant Brachyspira pilosicoli oligopeptide-binding proteins as vaccine candidates in a mouse model of intestinal spirochaetosis.The anaerobic intestinal spirochaete Brachyspira pilosicoli colonizes the large intestine of humans, and various species of animals and birds, in which it may induce a mild colitis and diarrhoea. The aim of the current study was to evaluate the use of putative oligopeptide-binding proteins of B. pilosicoli as vaccine components. A partial genome sequence of B. pilosicoli porcine strain 95/1000 was subjected to bioinformatics analysis, and six genes predicted to encode oligopeptide-binding proteins were selected. Following a PCR-based distribution study of the genes across different strains of the spirochaete, they were amplified from B. pilosicoli human strain WesB and cloned in Escherichia coli. The recombinant histidine-tagged proteins were purified and subjected to in vitro and in vivo immunogenicity analysis. Recombinant products (P-1 and P-3) from two genes that were immunogenic and recognized by sera from pigs that had recovered from B. pilosicoli infections were tested in a mouse model of intestinal spirochaetosis. For each recombinant protein, groups of 12 C3H/HeJ mice were vaccinated subcutaneously with 100 microg protein emulsified in Freund's incomplete adjuvant, twice with a 2 week interval. Two weeks later the vaccinated and non-vaccinated control animals were challenged orally with B. pilosicoli strain WesB. Both proteins induced systemic and local colonic IgG antibody responses, and, following experimental infection, the cumulative number of colonization days was significantly (P<0.001) less in both groups of vaccinated mice compared to the control mice. There were significantly (P=0.012) fewer mice colonized in the group vaccinated with P-1 than in the non-vaccinated control group. The results suggest that oligopeptide-binding proteins may have potential for use as components of vaccines for B. pilosicoli.

CFD simulation of mixing in egg-shaped anaerobic digesters.A computational fluid dynamics (CFD) model that characterizes mechanical draft tube mixing in egg-shaped anaerobic digesters was developed. Simulation of flow patterns were carried out with a propeller rotating from 400 to 750rpm, assuming liquid manure to be Newtonian (water) and non-Newtonian fluids depending on the total solids (TS) concentration. Power number and flow number of the propeller in water mixing were validated against lab specifications and experimental data from a field test. The rotational direction and placement of the propeller were examined to identify the primary pumping mode and the optimum position of the propeller fixed inside the tube. Quantitative comparisons of two mixing methods and two digester shapes indicated that mechanical draft tube mixing is more efficient than external pumped recirculation, and that the egg shape provides for more efficient mixing than the cylindrical shape. Furthermore, scale-up rules for mixing in egg-shaped digesters were investigated.

In vivo bioluminescence imaging for the study of intestinal colonization by Escherichia coli in mice.Bioluminescence imaging (BLI) is emerging as a powerful tool for real-time monitoring of infections in living animals. However, since luciferases are oxygenases, it has been suggested that the requirement for oxygen may limit the use of BLI in anaerobic environments, such as the lumen of the gut. Strains of Escherichia coli harboring the genes for either the bacterial luciferase from Photorhabdus luminescens or the PpyRE-TS and PpyGR-TS firefly luciferase mutants of Photinus pyralis (red and green thermostable P. pyralis luciferase mutants, respectively) have been engineered and used to monitor intestinal colonization in the streptomycin-treated mouse model. There was excellent correlation between the bioluminescence signal measured in the feces (R2=0.98) or transcutaneously in the abdominal region of whole animals (R2=0.99) and the CFU counts in the feces of bacteria harboring the luxABCDE operon. Stability in vivo of the bioluminescence signal was achieved by constructing plasmid pAT881(pGB2OmegaPamiluxABCDE), which allowed long-term monitoring of intestinal colonization without the need for antibiotic selection for plasmid maintenance. Levels of intestinal colonization by various strains of E. coli could be compared directly by simple recording of the bioluminescence signal in living animals. The difference in spectra of light emission of the PpyRE-TS and PpyGR-TS firefly luciferase mutants and dual bioluminescence detection allowed direct in vitro and in vivo quantification of two bacterial populations by measurement of red and green emitted signals and thus monitoring of the two populations simultaneously. This system offers a simple and direct method to study in vitro and in vivo competition between mutants and the parental strain. BLI is a useful tool to study intestinal colonization.

Combination effect of pH and acetate on enzymatic cellulose hydrolysis.The productivity and efficiency of cellulase are significant in cellulose hydrolysis. With the accumulation of volatile fatty acids (VFAs), the pH value in anaerobic digestion system is reduced. Therefore, this study will find out how the pH and the amount of acetate influence the enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose. The effects of pH and acetate on cellulase produced from Bacillus coagulans were studied at various pH 5-8, and acetate concentrations (0-60 mmol/L). A batch kinetic model for enzymatic cellulose hydrolysis was constructed from experimental data and performed. The base hypothesis was as follows: the rates of enzymatic cellulose hydrolysis rely on pH and acetate concentration. The results showed that the suitable pH range for cellulase production and cellulose hydrolysis (represents efficiency of cellulase) was 2.6-7.5, and 5.3-8.3, respectively. Moreover, acetate in the culture medium had an effect on cellulase production (K(I) = 49.50 mmol/L, n = 1.7) less than cellulose hydrolysis (K(I) = 37.85 mmol/L, n = 2.0). The results indicated that both the pH of suspension and acidogenic products influence the enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose in an anaerobic environment. To enhance the cellulose hydrolysis rate, the accumulated acetate concentration should be lower than 25 mmol/L, and pH should be maintained at 7.

Tissue-specific short chain fatty acid metabolism and slow metabolic recovery after ischemia from hyperpolarized NMR in vivo.Mechanistic details of mammalian metabolism in vivo and dynamic metabolic changes in intact organisms are difficult to monitor because of the lack of spatial, chemical, or temporal resolution when applying traditional analytical tools. These limitations can be addressed by sensitivity enhancement technology for fast in vivo NMR assays of enzymatic fluxes in tissues of interest. We apply this methodology to characterize organ-specific short chain fatty acid metabolism and the changes of carnitine and coenzyme A pools in ischemia reperfusion. This is achieved by assaying acetyl-CoA synthetase and acetyl-carnitine transferase catalyzed transformations in vivo. The fast and predominant flux of acetate and propionate signal into acyl-carnitine pools shows the efficient buffering of free CoA levels. Sizeable acetyl-carnitine formation from exogenous acetate is even found in liver, where acetyl-CoA synthetase and acetyl-carnitine transferase activities have been assumed sequestered in different compartments. In vivo assays of altered acetate metabolism were applied to characterize pathological changes of acetate metabolism upon ischemia. Coenzyme pools in ischemic skeletal muscle are reduced in vivo even 1 h after disturbing muscle perfusion. Impaired mitochondrial metabolism and slow restoration of free CoA are corroborated by assays employing fumarate to show persistently reduced tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle activity upon ischemia. In the same animal model, anaerobic metabolism of pyruvate and tissue perfusion normalize faster than mitochondrial bioenergetics.

In vitro and in vivo evaluation of the prebiotics GroBiotic-A, inulin, mannanoligosaccharide, and galactooligosaccharide on the digestive microbiota and performance of hybrid striped bass (Morone chrysops x Morone saxatilis).Two separate experiments were conducted with hybrid striped bass to evaluate four potential prebiotics: GroBiotic-A (partially autolyzed brewer's yeast, dairy ingredient components, and fermentation products), mannanoligosaccharide (MOS), galactooligosaccharide (GOS), and inulin. In the in vitro experiment, intestinal contents were incubated with the individual prebiotics (0.5% by weight) at 25 degrees C for 24 and 48 h. Analysis of volatile fatty acids in the supernatant showed that GroBiotic-A, MOS, and GOS tended to produce lower acetate levels but higher butyrate levels at 48 h compared to diet alone. However, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis failed to detect any differences in the composition of the microbial community among treatments. DNA sequencing of a common band for all inoculated samples revealed close similarity to the anaerobic Fusobacteria bacterium. An 8-week feeding trial also was conducted to evaluate the four prebiotics looking at growth performance; weight gain, feed efficiency ratio, protein efficiency ratio, whole-body ash, moisture, and lipid did not vary among fish fed the various diets. However, DGGE analysis revealed that all prebiotics produced a different type of microbial community in the intestinal tract of hybrid striped bass compared to fish fed the basal diet. Thus, GroBiotic-A, FOS, GOS, and MOS exhibited prebiotic effects in hybrid striped bass.

Pre-treatment mechanisms during thermophilic-mesophilic temperature phased anaerobic digestion of primary sludge.Pre-treatment is used extensively to improve degradability and hydrolysis rate of material being fed into digesters. One emerging process is temperature phased anaerobic digestion (TPAD), which applies a short (2 day) 50-70 degrees C pre-treatment step prior to 35 degrees C digestion in the main stage (10-20 days). In this study, we evaluated a thermophilic-mesophilic TPAD against a mesophilic-mesophilic TPAD treating primary sludge. Thermophilic-mesophilic TPAD achieved 54% VS destruction compared to 44% in mesophilic-mesophilic TPAD, with a 25% parallel increase in methane production. Measurements of soluble COD and NH(4)(+)-N showed increased hydrolysis extent during thermophilic pre-treatment. Model based analysis indicated the improved performance was due to an increased hydrolysis coefficient rather than an increased inherent degradability, suggesting while TPAD is suitable as an intensification process, a larger main digester could achieve similar impact.

Extension of the anaerobic digestion model No. 1 (ADM1) to include phenol compounds biodegradation processes for simulating the anaerobic co-digestion of olive mill wastes at mesophilic temperature.The anaerobic digestion model No. 1 (ADM1) was extended and enhanced to describe the anaerobic degradation processes of phenol compounds and homologues in olive mill wastewater (OMW) and olive mill solid waste (OMSW) at mesophilic temperature (37 degrees C). The original ADM1 basic structure was extended by to the inclusion of phenolic compounds degradation processes into benzoate and then into acetate. The inhibitory effect of phenolic compounds on the fermenting process was accounted for by the use of non-competitive inhibition functions. New sensitive phenolic and benzoate parameters were calibrated and validated using updated experimental data from our previous study dealing with the mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion of OMW with OMSW in semi-continuous tubular digesters. The simulating results revealed that the extended ADM1 could predict with adequate accuracy the steady-state results of gas flow rate, effluent pH and soluble phenol concentrations of various influent concentrations at different hydraulic retention times (HRTs).

A mass transfer model of ammonia volatilization from anaerobic digestate.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is becoming increasingly popular for treating organic waste. The methane produced can be burned to generate electricity and the digestate, which is high in mineral nitrogen, can be used as a fertiliser. In this paper we evaluate potential losses of ammonia via volatilization from food waste anaerobic digestate using a closed chamber system equipped with a sulphuric acid trap. Ammonia losses represent a pollution source and, over long periods could reduce the agronomic value of the digestate. Observed ammonia losses from the experimental system were linear with time. A simple non-steady-state partitioning model was developed to represent the process. After calibration, the model was able to describe the behaviour of ammonia in the digestate and in the trap very well. The average rate of volatilization was approximately 5.2 g Nm(-2)week(-1). The model was used to extrapolate the findings of the laboratory study to a number of AD storage scenarios. The simulations highlight that open storage of digestate could result in significant losses of ammonia to the atmosphere. Losses are predicted to be relatively minor from covered facilities, particularly if depth to surface area ratio is high.

[Effect of cow feces on anaerobic digestion process of Spartina alterniflora].Effects of cow feces on anaerobic digestion process of Spartina alterniflora was studied by batch model at 35 degrees C. When Spartina alterniflora was digested alone, the biogas yield was 222.61 mL/g, and it was acidified from 10 d to 15 d. When cow feces was added, the environment where microorganisms lived in was meliorated, pH value was stabilized and biogas production was improved by 38.83%. Volatile fatty acids production was not affected significantly, but the peak was advanced. FTIR and XRD analysis of solid residue substances further proved that co-digestion promoted the removal of carbohydrates and resulted in higher content of lignin than Spartina alterniflora straw digested alone, and promoted the destruction of crystalline of cellulose. The crystallinity index (C(x)I) of Spartina alterniflora, digested Spartina alterniflora and co-digested Spartina alterniflora were 0.617 6, 0.6200 and 0.615 4, respectively. Therefore, adding cow feces was beneficial for the decomposition and increasing the biotransformation rate of Spartina alterniflora straw.

Predicting the degradability of waste activated sludge.The objective of this study was to identify methods for estimating anaerobic digestibility of waste activated sludge (WAS). The WAS streams were generated in three sequencing batch reactors (SBRs) treating municipal wastewater. The wastewater and WAS properties were initially determined through simulation of SBR operation with BioWin (EnviroSim Associates Ltd., Flamborough, Ontario, Canada). Samples of WAS from the SBRs were subsequently characterized through respirometry and batch anaerobic digestion. Respirometry was an effective tool for characterizing the active fraction of WAS and could be a suitable technique for determining sludge composition for input to anaerobic models. Anaerobic digestion of the WAS revealed decreasing methane production and lower chemical oxygen demand removals as the SRT of the sludge increased. BioWin was capable of accurately describing the digestion of the WAS samples for typical digester SRTs. For extended digestion times (i.e., greater than 30 days), some degradation of the endogenous decay products was assumed to achieve accurate simulations for all sludge SRTs.

Influence of trace elements on methane formation from a synthetic model substrate for maize silage.The effect of a well-defined trace element solution and the elements nickel, cobalt and molybdenum on anaerobic digestion of a synthetic model substrate for maize silage was studied in batch reactor experiments at 35 degrees C. The defined substrate (dS) consisted of xylan and starch as the main carbon source, urea as nitrogen source and phosphorus from a 0.1M potassium phosphate buffer. Batch reactors were operated for 30 days with 1.5% organic dry matter (ODM) of inoculum sludge from a mono-maize biogas plant and 1% ODM of the defined substrate. Results showed an increase of methane yield of up to 30% upon addition of the trace element solution. With an addition of nickel at 10.6 microM, a final yield of 407 l kg(-1) ODM was reached and an enhanced methane production by 25% at day 25 of operation was observed. Total elimination of nickel from the trace element solution highly decreased methane formation and process stability. Cobalt in a concentration range of 0.4 up to 2.0 microM increased the methane production by 10% approximately. Interestingly, addition of molybdenum did not significantly effect methane production.

Xylan-regulated delivery of human keratinocyte growth factor-2 to the inflamed colon by the human anaerobic commensal bacterium Bacteroides ovatus.Human growth factors are potential therapeutic agents for various inflammatory disorders affecting the gastrointestinal tract. However, they are unstable when administered orally and systemic administration requires high doses increasing the risk of unwanted side effects. Live microorganism-based delivery systems can overcome these problems although they suffer from the inability to control heterologous protein production and there are concerns regarding biosafety and environmental contamination.
To overcome these limitations we have developed a new live bacteria drug-delivery system using the human commensal gut bacterium Bacteroides ovatus engineered to secrete human growth factors in response to dietary xylan. The anaerobic nature of B ovatus provides an inherent biosafety feature. B ovatus strains expressing human keratinocyte growth factor-2, which plays a central role in intestinal epithelial homeostasis and repair (BO-KGF), were generated by homologous recombination and evaluated using the dextran sodium sulfate (DSS)-induced model of intestinal epithelial injury and colitis.
In response to xylan BO-KGF produced biologically active KGF both in vitro and in vivo. In DSS treated mice administration of xylan and BO-KGF had a significant therapeutic effect in reducing weight loss, improving stool consistency, reducing rectal bleeding, accelerating healing of damaged epithelium, reducing inflammation and neutrophil infiltration, reducing expression of pro-inflammatory cytokines, and accelerating production of goblet cells. BO-KGF and xylan treatment also had a marked prophylactic effect limiting the development of inflammation and disruption of the epithelial barrier.
This novel, diet-regulated, live bacterial drug delivery system may be applicable to treating various bowel disorders.

Kinetic evaluation of the psychrophylic anaerobic digestion of synthetic domestic sewage using an upflow filter.A study of the anaerobic digestion process of synthetic domestic sewage (total COD: 705 mg/L) was carried out. The digestion was conducted in an upflow anaerobic filter with corrugated plastic rings as packing media at psychrophilic temperature (15-17 degrees C). For HRTs of between 10.0 and 17.1h, the total COD removal efficiency was almost constant and independent on the HRT, achieving an average value of around 80%. However, when the HRT decreased from 7.0 to 3.2h the efficiency diminished from 77% to 65%. This decrease in removal efficiency was parallel to the increase in the VFA/Alkalinity ratio for this HRT range. The flow pattern observed in the reactor studied was intermediate between plug-flow and CSTR systems, although the plug-flow was predominant. It can also be observed that Young and McCarty's model almost coincided with the CSTR model, when the biodegradable COD was used for fitting the data. The Manariotis equation allowed a better fit of the experimental data (total COD removal efficiency with influent substrate concentration and HRT) than the Young model. The methane yield coefficient obtained was 0.15 L CH(4)/g COD consumed.

In vitro fermentation of broiler cecal content: the role of lactobacilli and pH value on the composition of microbiota and end products fermentation.To assess the probiotic effects of Lactobacillus agilis JCM 1048 and L. salivarius ssp. salicinius JCM 1230 and the pH on the cecal microflora of chicken and metabolic end products.
An in vitro system, operated with batch bioreactor, was used for this assessment. Selected bacterial species were monitored at two pH values, over 24 h of batch culture incubation. The concentration of short chain fatty acids (SCFA) and lactate in the fermented material was also determined. The addition of L. agilis JCM 1048 and L. salivarius ssp. salicinius JCM 1230 into vessel 2 (Cc + P) increased the total anaerobes, lactobacilli and bifidobacteria after 24 h incubation. Moreover, lactobacilli supplementation decreased the total aerobes and streptococci, but it did not have any effects on coliforms. The supplementation of lactobacilli in vessel 2 (Cc + P) was found to significantly increase the production of lactate, propionate and butyrate. Furthermore, pH did not alter the formation of butyrate, whereas the production of acetate and propionate was significantly decreased at pH = 5.8.
L. agilis JCM 1048 and L. salivarius ssp. salicinius JCM 1230, as probiotic bacteria, have the ability to re-establish proper microbial balance by the formation of lactate as well as propionate, and stimulate butyrate-producing bacteria to produce butyrate in the chicken cecum.
This study was the first to report this under in vitro conditions, highlighting the probiotic roles of the two Lactobacillus strains in broiler cecal fermentation at different initial pH. These useful data can be helpful in improving the fermentation process in chicken cecum.

New generic mathematical model for WWTP sludge digesters operating under aerobic and anaerobic conditions: Model building and experimental verification.This paper presents a new mathematical model developed to reproduce the performance of a generic sludge digester working either under aerobic or anaerobic operational conditions. The digester has been modelled as two completely mixed tanks associated with gaseous and liquid volumes. The conversion model has been developed based on a plant wide modelling methodology (PWM) and comprises biochemical transformations, physicochemical reactions and thermodynamic considerations. The model predicts the reactor temperature and the temporary evolution of an extensive vector of model components which are completely defined in terms of elemental mass fractions (C, H, O, N and P) and charge density. Thus, the comprehensive definition of the model components guarantees the continuity of elemental mass and charge in all the model transformations and between any two systems defined by the model. The aim of the generic digester model is to overcome the problems that arise when trying to connect aerobic and anaerobic digestion processes working in series or to connect water and sludge lines in a WWTP. The modelling methodology used has allowed the systematic construction of the biochemical model which acts as an initial illustrative example of an application that has been experimentally verified. The variation of the temperature is also predicted based on a thermal dynamic model. Real data from four different facilities and a straightforward calibration have been used to successfully verify the model predictions in the cases of mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic digestion as well as autothermal thermophilic aerobic digestion (ATAD). The large amount of data from the full scale ATAD and the anaerobic digestion pilot plants, all of them working under different conditions, has allowed the validation of the model for that case study.

Carbon footprint of aerobic biological treatment of winery wastewater.The carbon associated with wastewater and its treatment accounts for approximately 6% of the global carbon balance. Within the wastewater treatment industry, winery wastewater has a minor contribution, although it can have a major impact on wine-producing regions. Typically, winery wastewater is treated by biological processes, such as the activated sludge process. Biomass produced during treatment is usually disposed of directly, i.e. without digestion or other anaerobic processes. We applied our previously published model for carbon-footprint calculation to the areas worldwide producing yearly more than 10(6) m(3) of wine (i.e., France, Italy, Spain, California, Argentina, Australia, China, and South Africa). Datasets on wine production from the Food and Agriculture Organisation were processed and wastewater flow rates calculated with assumptions based on our previous experience. Results show that the wine production, hence the calculated wastewater flow, is reported as fairly constant in the period 2005-2007. Nevertheless, treatment process efficiency and energy-conservation may play a significant role on the overall carbon-footprint. We performed a sensitivity analysis on the efficiency of the aeration process (alphaSOTE per unit depth, or alphaSOTE/Z) in the biological treatment operations and showed significant margin for improvement. Our results show that the carbon-footprint reduction via aeration efficiency improvement is in the range of 8.1 to 12.3%.

Fermentation of sugarcane bagasse and chicken manure to calcium carboxylates under thermophilic conditions.Sugarcane bagasse and chicken manure were anaerobically fermented to carboxylic acids using a mixed culture of marine microorganisms at 55 degrees C. Using the MixAlco process--an example of consolidated bioprocessing--the resulting carboxylate salts can be converted to mixed alcohol fuels or gasoline. To enhance digestibility, sugarcane bagasse was lime pretreated with 0.1 g Ca(OH)(2)/g dry biomass at 100 degrees C for 2 h. Four-stage countercurrent fermentation of 80% sugarcane bagasse/20% chicken manure was performed at various volatile solids (VS) loading rates and liquid residence times. Calcium carbonate was used as a buffer during fermentation. The highest acid productivity of 0.79 g/(L day) occurred at a total acid concentration of 21.5 g/L. The highest conversion (0.59 g VS digested/g VS fed) and yield (0.18 g total acids/g VS fed) occurred at a total acid concentration of 15.5 g/L. The continuum particle distribution model (CPDM) predicted the experimental total acid concentrations and conversions at an average error of 10.14% and 12.68%, respectively. CPDM optimizations show that high conversion (>80%) and total acid concentration of 21.3 g/L are possible with 300 g substrate/(L liquid), 30 days liquid residence time, and 3 g/(L day) solid loading rate. Thermophilic fermentation has a higher acetate content (approximately 63 wt%) than mesophilic fermentation (approximately 39 wt%).

Degradation and metabolism of catechin, epigallocatechin-3-gallate (EGCG), and related compounds by the intestinal microbiota in the pig cecum model.As intestinal metabolism strongly influences the bioavailability of flavonoids, this study investigated the microbial deconjugation and degradation of the most common flavan-3-ols using the pig cecum in vitro model system developed in the authors' group. The microbial degradation of (+)-/(-)-catechin, (-)-epicatechin, (-)-gallocatechin, (-)-epigallocatechin, (-)-gallocatechin gallate, (-)-epigallocatechin gallate, procyanidin B2, and gallic acid was investigated under anaerobic physiological conditions in single incubation experiments and as a mixture. Incubation was done with the microbiota from three different animals in repeat determinations (n = 6). The flavan-3-ols under study were almost completely metabolized by the intestinal microbiota within 4-8 h. No difference was observed for catechin enantiomers. In addition to monomeric flavonoids, procyanidins are also metabolized by the intestinal microbiota as shown for procyanidin B2. The arising hydroxylated phenolcarboxylic acids are similar for all tested substances. These small phenolic degradation products might be responsible for the observed antioxidative activities described in the literature.

Modeling of ammonia speciation in anaerobic digesters.Anaerobic digestion of high-nitrogen wastes such as animal manure can be inhibited by high concentrations of un-ionized ammonia, NH(3) (aq). Understanding the toxicity of NH(3) (aq) to anaerobic digestion requires a method for determining its concentration. Previous work on ammonia toxicity in anaerobic digesters has utilized a simple equilibrium calculation for estimating NH(3) (aq) concentration from total ammonia, temperature, and pH. This approach is not appropriate for concentrated solutions. In this work, a speciation model for major solutes in anaerobic digesters, based on Pitzer's ion-interaction approach, is presented. Model simulations show that the simple equilibrium calculation (without corrections for non-ideal behavior) substantially overestimates NH(3) (aq) concentration for all but dilute digesters. This error in concentration determination increases with total solids content and is estimated to be greater than 40% for a digester fed dairy manure with 5% total solids or swine manure with 3% total solids. However, including an estimate of the activity coefficient for NH(4)(+) in the simple equilibrium calculation results in much more accurate estimates of NH(3) (aq) concentration. In this case, the estimated error is less than 10% in the absence of struvite precipitation at the highest total solids contents considered.

Observer-based input estimation in continuous anaerobic wastewater treatment processes.In this paper a "virtually controlled observer" (VCO) is proposed to estimate simultaneously the influent substrate concentration and unmeasured state variables in continuous anaerobic digestion processes. The hypothetical (unmeasured) influent substrate concentration is updated by a feedback control, which is regulated by the estimation error of a measured output. The proposed approach is firstly illustrated upon a simple continuous bioprocess. Then, the performance of the observer is tested via numerical simulations in a continuous anaerobic digestion model. Results showed that it is possible to estimate both, the influent substrate concentration and unmeasured states in the digester in the face of parametric uncertainties.

Bile duct ligation: step-by-step to cholangiocyte inflammatory tumorigenesis.Chronic liver inflammation after murine bile duct ligation could evolve according to three interrelated phenotypes, which would have different metabolic, functional and histologic characteristics. Liver injury secondary to extrahepatic cholestasis would induce an early ischemic-reperfusion phenotype with cholangiocyte depolarization, abnormal ion transport, hypometabolism with anaerobic glycolysis and hepatocytic apoptosis. This phenotype, in turn, could trigger the switch to a leukocytic phenotype by the cholangiocytes, with an intense anaplerotic activity, hypermetabolism, extracellular matrix degradation and moderated proliferation to create a pseudotissue with metabolic autonomy and paracrine functions. In the long-term cholestasis-drive tumorigenesis, the tumorous tissue would principally consist of cholangiocyte parenchyma, with an impressive biosynthetic activity through the tricarboxylic cell cycle. In terms of the tumorous stroma, made up by fibroplasia and angiogenesis, it would favor the tumor trophism. In conclusion, the great intensity and persistence in the expression of these phenotypes by the cholestatic cholangiocyte would favor chronic inflammatory tumorigenesis.

Segmental ischemia of the liver - microdialysis in a novel porcine model.Segmental liver ischemia is often used in rodents to study ischemia and reperfusion injuries (IRI). There are no reports of protocols using segmental ischemia in porcine models. Microdialysis (MD) provides the opportunity to study local effects of IRI in vivo.
Eight pigs received an MD catheter placed in liver segments IV and V, respectively. All circulation to segment IV was stopped for 80 min, and reperfusion was followed for 240 min.
During ischemia the levels of lactate, glycerol and glucose increased 3-fold (p < 0.001), 40-fold (p < 0.001) and 4-fold (p < 0.01), respectively, in the ischemic segment compared to the perfused segment, whereas the levels of pyruvate fell to a tenth of the preischemic level (p < 0.001). All values returned to baseline after reperfusion. Serum levels of aspartate aminotransferase increased (p < 0.05). Polymorphonuclear cells increased in both segments, although the density was significantly higher in segment IV.
Clamping of one liver segment in pigs is a simple, stable and reproducible model to study IRI with minimal systemic effects. MD revealed no signs of anaerobic metabolism in the perfused segment but still there was an increase in the number of polymorphonuclear neutrophils in this segment, although it was lower than that in the ischemic segment.

Use of near infrared spectroscopy in monitoring of volatile fatty acids in anaerobic digestion.Recently biogas production from agricultural sources has rapidly developed. Therefore the demands on biogas plants to optimise the efficiency of the anaerobic digestion (AD) process have grown immensely. At present there is no online-supervision tool available to monitor the AD process, but costly and time-consuming chemical analyses are necessary. The possibility to use near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) in order to track relevant process parameters like total volatile fatty acids (VFA), acetic acid and propionic acid was investigated in the present research project. A NIR-sensor was integrated into a full-scale 1 MW biogas plant and NIR-spectra of the fermenter contents were recorded semi-continuously for 500 days. Weekly samples were taken and analysed for the above mentioned parameters. Calibration models were calculated, capable of following these parameters: VFA (r(2)=0.94), acetic acid (r(2)=0.69), propionic acid (r(2)=0.89).

Anaerobic digestion of glycerol derived from biodiesel manufacturing.The anaerobic digestion of glycerol derived from biodiesel manufacturing, in which COD was found to be 1010 g/kg, was studied in batch laboratory-scale reactors at mesophilic temperature using granular and non-granular sludge. Due to the high KOH concentration of this by-product, H(3)PO(4) was added to recover this alkaline catalyst as agricultural fertilizer (potassium phosphates). Although it would not be economically viable, a volume of glycerol was distilled and utilised as reference substrate. The anaerobic revalorisation of glycerol using granular sludge achieved a biodegradability of around 100%, while the methane yield coefficient was 0.306 m(3) CH(4)/kg acidified glycerol. Anaerobic digestion could be a good option for revalorising this available, impure and low priced by-product derived from the surplus of biodiesel companies. The organic loading rate studied was 0.21-0.38 g COD/g VSS d, although an inhibition phenomenon was observed at the highest load.

Influence of temperature on the hydrolysis, acidogenesis and methanogenesis in mesophilic anaerobic digestion: parameter identification and modeling application.The effect of temperature on the kinetic parameters involved in the main reactions of the anaerobic digestion process was studied. Batch tests with starch, glucose and acetic acid as substrates for hydrolysis, acidogenesis and methanogenesis, respectively, were performed in a temperature range between 15 and 45 degrees C. First order kinetics was assumed to determine the hydrolysis rate constant, while Monod and Haldane kinetics were considered for acidogenesis and methanogenesis, respectively. The results obtained showed that the anaerobic process is strongly influenced by temperature, with acidogenesis exerting the highest effect. The Cardinal Temperature Model 1 with an inflection point (CTM1) fitted properly the experimental data in the whole temperature range, except for the maximum degradation rate of acidogenesis. A simple case-study assessing the effect of temperature on an anaerobic CSTR performance indicated that with relatively simple substrates, like starch, the limiting reaction would change depending on temperature. However, when more complex substrates are used (e.g. sewage sludge), the hydrolysis might become more quickly into the limiting step.

Population dynamics at digester overload conditions.Two different case studies concerning potential overload situations of anaerobic digesters were investigated and mathematically modelled by means of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1). The first scenario included a digester failure at a municipal WWTP which occurred during revision works of the upstream digester within a two-step digestion system when the sludge was directly by-passed to the 2nd-step reactor. Secondly, the non-occurrence of a highly expected upset situation in a lab-scale digester fed with cattle manure was investigated. ADM1 was utilized to derive indicators which were used to investigate the relationship between digester stability and biomass population dynamics. Conventional design parameters such as the organic loading rate appeared unsuitable for process description under dynamic conditions. Indicators reflecting the biokinetic state (e.g. F(net)/M(net) or the VFA/alkalinity ratio) are more adequate for the assessment of the stability of reactors in transient situations.

In vitro fermentation of oat flours from typical and high beta-glucan oat lines.Two publicly available oat (Avena sativa) lines, "Jim" and "Paul" (5.17 and 5.31% beta-glucan, respectively), and one experimental oat line "N979" (7.70% beta-glucan), were used to study the effect of beta-glucan levels in oat flours during simulated in vitro digestion and fermentation with human fecal flora obtained from different individuals. The oat flours were digested by using human digestion enzymes and fermented by batch fermentation under anaerobic conditions for 24 h. The fermentation progress was monitored by measuring pH, total gas, and short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) production. Significant effects of beta-glucan on the formation of gas and total SCFA were observed compared to the blank without substrate (P < 0.05); however, there were no differences in pH changes, total gas, and total SCFA production among oat lines (P > 0.05). Acetate, propionate, and butyrate were the main SCFA produced from digested oat flours during fermentation. More propionate and less acetate were produced from digested oat flours compared to lactulose. Different human fecal floras obtained from three healthy individuals had similar patterns in the change of pH and the production of gas during fermentation. Total SCFA after 24 h of fermentation were not different, but the formation rates of total SCFA differed between individuals. In vitro fermentation of digested oat flours with beta-glucan could provide favorable environmental conditions for the colon and these findings, thus, will help in developing oat-based food products with desirable health benefits.

Developing a multipoint titration method with a variable dose implementation for anaerobic digestion monitoring.Determination of metabolites from an anaerobic digester with an acid base titration is considered as superior method for many reasons. This paper describes a practical at line compatible multipoint titration method. The titration procedure was improved by speed and data quality. A simple and novel control algorithm for estimating a variable titrant dose was derived for this purpose. This non-linear PI-controller like algorithm does not require any preliminary information from sample. Performance of this controller is superior compared to traditional linear PI-controllers. In addition, simplification for presenting polyprotic acids as a sum of multiple monoprotic acids is introduced along with a mathematical error examination. A method for inclusion of the ionic strength effect with stepwise iteration is shown. The titration model is presented with matrix notations enabling simple computation of all concentration estimates. All methods and algorithms are illustrated in the experimental part. A linear correlation better than 0.999 was obtained for both acetate and phosphate used as model compounds with slopes of 0.98 and 1.00 and average standard deviations of 0.6% and 0.8%, respectively. Furthermore, insensitivity of the presented method for overlapping buffer capacity curves was shown.

Modified ADM1 disintegration/hydrolysis structures for modeling batch thermophilic anaerobic digestion of thermally pretreated waste activated sludge.Anaerobic digestion disintegration and hydrolysis have been traditionally modeled according to first-order kinetics assuming that their rates do not depend on disintegration/hydrolytic biomass concentrations. However, the typical sigmoid-shape increase in time of the disintegration/hydrolysis rates cannot be described with first-order models. For complex substrates, first-order kinetics should thus be modified to account for slowly degradable material. In this study, a slightly modified IWA ADM1 model is presented to simulate thermophilic anaerobic digestion of thermally pretreated waste activated sludge. Contois model is first included for disintegration and hydrolysis steps instead of first-order kinetics and Hill function is then used to model ammonia inhibition of aceticlastic methanogens instead of a non-competitive function. One batch experimental data set of anaerobic degradation of a raw waste activated sludge is used to calibrate the proposed model and three additional data sets from similar sludge thermally pretreated at three different temperatures are used to validate the parameters values.

A comprehensive model of simultaneous denitrification and methanogenic fermentation processes.The denitrification process was incorporated into the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) in order to account for the effect of denitrification on the methanogenic fermentation process. The model was calibrated and optimized using previously published experimental data and kinetic parameter values obtained with a mixed, mesophilic (35 degrees C) methanogenic culture. Model simulations were used to predict the effect of nitrate reduction on the methanogenic fermentation process in batch, semi-continuous, and continuous flow reactors experiencing operational changes and/or system disturbances. The extended model clearly revealed the importance of substrate competition between denitrifiers and non-denitrifiers as well as the impact of N-oxide inhibition on process interactions between fermentation, methanogenesis, and denitrification.

Effect of biomass concentration and inoculum source on the rate of anaerobic cellulose solubilization.This study determines cellulose solubilization kinetics from controlled batch digestions and shows the effect of inoculum biomass concentrations. Separate measurements and analyzes were performed for sessile biomass (biofilms) and planktonic biomass (free suspensions). Experiments were conducted using either leachate enriched on cellulose or rumen fluid as inoculum to assess if the effect of biomass concentration was consistent for microbial populations from different source environments. All batch digestions were fitted to a first-order kinetic model (R(2) ranging from 0.94 to 0.99). Regression analysis used to compare the first-order hydrolysis rate showed that the first-order hydrolysis rate was most strongly correlated with the concentration of sessile biomass rather than with the concentration of total or planktonic biomass. The correlation between solubilization rate and sessile biomass was statistically the same for the rumen and leachate inoculated reactors indicating that at low concentration ratios of inoculum to cellulose, the rate of cellulose solubilization is dependant primarily on sessile biomass concentration rather than the species profile of the cellulolytic community.

Advanced dynamical risk analysis for monitoring anaerobic digestion process.Methanogenic fermentation involves a natural ecosystem that can be used for waste water treatment. This anaerobic process can have two locally stable steady-states and an unstable one making the process hard to handle. The aim of this work is to propose analytical criteria to detect hazardous working modes, namely situations where the system evolves towards the acidification of the plant. We first introduce a commonly used simplified model and recall its main properties. To assess the evolution of the system we study the phase plane and split it into nineteen zones according to some qualitative traits. Then a methodology is introduced to monitor in real-time the trajectory of the system across these zones and determine its position in the plane. It leads to a dynamical risk index based on the analysis of the transitions from one zone to another, and generates a classification of the zones according to their dangerousness. Finally the proposed strategy is applied to a virtual process based on model ADM1. It is worth noting that the proposed approach do not rely on the value of the parameters and is thus very robust.

Effect of low temperature microwave pretreatment on characteristics and mesophilic digestion of primary sludge.The main obstacles existing in the biodegradation of primary sludge are particle de-amalgamation and the degradation-resisting structure of large-size particulate. Microwave irradiation solubilizes primary sludge by interaction of the electromagnetic field with polar particles in the sludge, which leads to a temperature increase in the irradiated sample. The influence of microwave irradiation on the characteristics and biochemical methane potential of microwave-pretreated primary sludge was studied in terms of microwave intensity (40 and 80% of total microwave power), sludge solid concentration (1 to 4% total solids, w/v) and pretreatment temperature achieved (35 to 90 degrees C). Microwave irradiation was found to increase the concentration of soluble chemical oxygen demand in the sludge. The ratio of soluble to total chemical oxygen demand increased from 2.5 to between 6 and 7% for primary sludge with 4% total solids concentration at a pretreatment temperature of 90 degrees C. In biochemical methane potential tests, biogas production rate increased with both pretreatment temperature and sludge total solids concentrations. For primary sludge with 4% total solids concentration pretreated to 90 degrees C, biogas production rate increased by 37% or resulted in a 28% reduction in required digestion time to achieve 85% of the ultimate biogas production. A first-order reaction model showed a constant increase in the biogas production rate coefficient with the increase in microwave pretreatment temperature. Microwave intensity in the range of pretreatment temperatures studied (35 to 90 degrees C) presented no obvious impact on primary sludge solubilization or anaerobic digestion in terms of ultimate biodegradation efficiency.

Analysis of methane potentials of steam-exploded wheat straw and estimation of energy yields of combined ethanol and methane production.Agrarian biomass as a renewable energy source can contribute to a considerable CO(2) reduction. The overriding goal of the European Union is to cut energy consumption related greenhouse gas emission in the EU by 20% until the year 2020. This publication aims at optimising the methane production from steam-exploded wheat straw and presents a theoretical estimation of the ethanol and methane potential of straw. For this purpose, wheat straw was pretreated by steam explosion using different time/temperature combinations. Specific methane yields were analyzed according to VDI 4630. Pretreatment of wheat straw by steam explosion significantly increased the methane yield from anaerobic digestion by up to 20% or a maximum of 331 l(N)kg(-1) VS compared to untreated wheat straw. Furthermore, the residual anaerobic digestion potential of methane after ethanol fermentation was determined by enzymatic hydrolysis of pretreated wheat straw using cellulase. Based on the resulting glucose concentration the ethanol yield and the residual sugar available for methane production were calculated. The theoretical maximum ethanol yield of wheat straw was estimated to be 0.249 kg kg(-1) dry matter. The achievable maximum ethanol yield per kg wheat straw dry matter pretreated by steam explosion and enzymatic hydrolysis was estimated to be 0.200 kg under pretreatment conditions of 200 degrees C and 10 min corresponding to 80% of the theoretical maximum. The residual methane yield from straw stillage was estimated to be 183 l(N)kg(-1) wheat straw dry matter. Based on the presented experimental data, a concept is proposed that processes wheat straw for ethanol and methane production. The concept of an energy supply system that provides more than two forms of energy is met by (1) upgrading obtained ethanol to fuel-grade quality and providing methane to CHP plants for the production of (2) electric energy and (3) utility steam that in turn can be used to operate distillation columns in the ethanol production process.

Modeling of two-phase anaerobic process treating traditional Chinese medicine wastewater with the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1.The aim of the study was to implement a mathematical model to simulate two-phase anaerobic digestion (TPAD) process which consisted of an anaerobic continuous stirred tank reactor (CSTR) and an upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor in series treating traditional Chinese medicine (TCM) wastewater. A model was built on the basis of Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) while considering complete mixing model for the CSTR, and axial direction discrete model and mixed series connection model for the UASB. The mathematical model was implemented with the simulation software package MATLABTM/Simulinks. System performance, in terms of COD removal, volatile fatty acids (VFA) accumulation and pH fluctuation, was simulated and compared with the measured values. The simulation results indicated that the model built was able to well predict the COD removal rate (-4.8-5.0%) and pH variation (-2.9-1.4%) of the UASB reactor, while failed to simulate the CSTR performance. Comparing to the measured results, the simulated acetic acid concentration of the CSTR effluent was underpredicted with a deviation ratios of 13.8-23.2%, resulting in an underprediction of total VFA and COD concentrations despite good estimation of propionic acid, butyric acid and valeric acid. It is presumed that ethanol present in the raw wastewater was converted into acetic acid during the acidification process, which was not considered by the model. Additionally, due to the underprediction of acetic acid the pH of CSTR effluent was overestimated.

Technology selection for MSW treatment in Altiplano areas using FMDM.There are special requirements for municipal solid waste (MSW) treatment caused by lower oxygen content and atmospheric pressure on the Altiplano. The intention of this paper was to analyse the applicability of various technologies to MSW treatment in the Altiplano and select the best one based on the current MSW collection modes and technical levels, using the Fuzzy Mathematical Decision Method (FMDM). Technologies including landfill, incineration, composting, and anaerobic digestion (AD) were compared. The results of the studies showed that AD technology is a new technology which is attractive in economic terms and helpful for environmental harmony. AD can solve the difficulties caused by a high content of organic matter in the MSW, lower atmospheric pressure and oxygen content on the Altiplano. Moreover, it can achieve reduction and recycling of the waste, thereby saving space for treatment and disposal. Using this technology, renewable energy can be recovered to save conventional fuel consumption and the emission of greenhouse gases can be reduced to improve the conservation of the local ecosystem. Putting AD into practice in the Altiplano may be the preferred method of MSW treatment.

The effect of enzyme addition on anaerobic digestion of JoseTall Wheat Grass.The effects of the addition of enzyme products containing cellulase, hemicellulase, and beta-glucosidase to anaerobic digestion systems were studied using JoseTall Wheat Grass (wheat grass) as a model substrate. Anaerobic digestion tests were performed using batch reactors operated at 50 degrees C. The application of enzyme products in three digestion configurations were simulated and investigated: (1) enzyme addition to a single-stage digester, (2) pre-treatment of wheat grass with enzymes followed by a single-stage anaerobic digestion, and (3) enzyme addition to the first stage (hydrolysis and acidification) of a two-stage digestion system. The enzyme products showed positive effects on the solubilization of wheat grass when used alone to treat the wheat grass. However, no significant differences in biogas and methane yields, and volatile solids reduction resulted when the enzyme products were tested in the anaerobic digestion systems. This reveals that the microorganisms present in the inoculum were effective in carrying out the digestion of wheat grass. The types of microorganisms present in the inoculum were identified using 16S rRNA sequence analysis. A comparison of the sequences between the different inocula revealed that the prevalent operational taxonomic units were similar, but that the acidified inoculum contained a higher percentage of the species Thermotogae.

Enhancement of bioenergy production and effluent quality by integrating optimized acidification with submerged anaerobic membrane bioreactor.To ensure effluent quality in the treatment of high-strength organic waste and enhance CH(4) production, this study investigates the applicability of process optimization and a submerged anaerobic membrane bioreactor (SAMBR) for a two-phase anaerobic digestion (TPAD) system. The use of response surface methodology (RSM) suggests that the optimum conditions for maximum volatile fatty acids (VFA) production were a hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 2.01 days and a substrate concentration of 29.30 g/L based on chemical oxygen demands (COD). A confirmation experiment showed that an empirical model could predict a VFA increase of 76% under the proposed conditions with a relative error of 4%. SAMBRs could convert the VFA in acidogenic effluent to CH(4) with an average production rate of 0.28 m(3)/m(3)/d in an HRT of 14 days. All of the SAMBRs could achieve COD removal rates of over 99% by the increased solid retention time and secondary membrane formation.

Methods for optimizing DNA extraction before quantifying oral bacterial numbers by real-time PCR.Methods for the optimal extraction of genomic DNA for real-time PCR enumeration of oral bacteria using the muramidase, mutanolysin, were developed using a simple in vitro oral flora model comprised of the facultative anaerobic gram-positive bacteria, Lactobacillus acidophilus and Streptococcus mutans, the gram-positive anaerobe, Parvimonas micra, and the gram-negative anaerobes, Porphyromonas gingivalis, Prevotella melaninogenica and Fusobacterium nucleatum. Traditional, as well as more elaborate, methods of quantifying bacterial numbers, including colony counting and estimation of DNA content using 4',6-diamino-2-phenylindole were compared in order to validate the real-time PCR approach. Evidence was obtained that P. gingivalis nuclease activity adversely affected the extraction of double-stranded DNA from this bacterium either alone or when it formed part of a consortium with the other bacteria. This nuclease activity could be overcome by treatment of the bacteria with either 20 mM diethyl pyrocarbonate or 70% ethanol at 4 degrees C overnight. A final purification of the DNA to remove any potential PCR inhibitors was added to the protocol in order to accurately quantify the amount of DNA by real-time PCR and hence the number of bacteria in a sample.

Expression of LAP, a SecA2-dependent secretory protein, is induced under anaerobic environment.Listeria adhesion protein (LAP), an alcohol acetaldehyde dehydrogenase homolog (lmo1634) in Listeria monocytogenes, promotes bacterial adhesion to intestinal epithelial cells in vitro. Investigation of the effect of anaerobiosis, an intrinsic gastrointestinal condition, on LAP expression and LAP-mediated infection should elucidate its significance during intestinal infection. The influence of anaerobiosis on LAP expression was determined by growing L. monocytogenes wild type (WT), and lap-deficient (KB208) and -complemented (CKB208) strains anaerobically and monitoring LAP in secreted, cell wall, and whole-cell protein fractions. The effect of anaerobiosis on LAP-mediated infection was evaluated in cell culture adhesion assays and mouse infection models. Additionally, the role of secretory system SecA2 in LAP secretion was investigated. Anaerobic growth induced significant increases in level of lap transcript and protein secretion, and secretion was SecA2-dependent. Anaerobiosis facilitated greater LAP-mediated adhesion of L. monocytogenes to cultured intestinal cells. Oral administration of WT, KB208 and CKB208 to mice confirmed that LAP is essential for full virulence, and anaerobically-grown WT exhibited greater translocation to liver and spleen relative to aerobically-grown organisms. LAP, a SecA2-dependent secreted virulence factor, plays an important role during intestinal infection, particularly when L. monocytogenes is subjected to an anaerobic environment.

Biofilm growth kinetics of a monomethylamine producing Alphaproteobacteria strain isolated from an anaerobic reactor.Industrial fishing effluents are characterized by high loads of protein and sulfate that stimulate the activity of proteolytic and sulfate reducing bacteria during anaerobic digestion. Their metabolic products (NH3 and H2S respectively) have a well-known detrimental effect on the activity of methanogens. Since methylamine is a carbon source used by methylaminotrophic methane producing archaea (mMPA) but not by sulfate reducing bacteria (SRB), enriched mMPA anaerobic biofilms have been developed on ceramics. We propose that methylated amines could be produced in the biofilm by using betaine, a known precursor of methylamine, as a carbon and energy source. We isolated an anaerobic betainotrophic methylaminogenic bacterial strain (bMB) from an anaerobic bioreactor, using betaine as the only carbon and energy source. This strain was identified by a standard biochemical test (API 20NE), cloning, and 16S rDNA sequencing. bMB biofilm structure and biofilm growth kinetic parameters were determined by means of scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and the Gompertz growth model, respectively. Monomethylamine production was determined by infrared spectroscopy and by high pressure liquid chromatography. The isolated bMB strain was determined as Stappia stellulata (Proteobacteria phylum). It was able to form biofilm on ceramics and its kinetic growth parameters resulted in: maximum biofilm bacterial count (A) of 6.25 x 10(8) UFC/cm(2) and maximum specific growth rate (mu(m)) of 0.0221/h. Production of monomethylamine was about 4.027 atogram/cell/day (at/cell/day) after 15 days of incubation in biofilms. This study confirms the adhesion capacity of this bMB strain on ceramic supports, assuring that monomethylamine production in biofilms could be enriched with mMPA that use monomethylamine.

Modeling microbial diversity in anaerobic digestion through an extended ADM1 model.The anaerobic digestion process comprises a whole network of sequential and parallel reactions, of both biochemical and physicochemical nature. Mathematical models, aiming at understanding and optimization of the anaerobic digestion process, describe these reactions in a structured way, the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) being the most well established example. While these models distinguish between different microorganisms involved in different reactions, to our knowledge they all neglect species diversity between organisms with the same function, i.e. performing the same reaction. Nevertheless, available experimental evidence suggests that the structure and properties of a microbial community may be influenced by process operation and on their turn also determine the reactor functioning. In order to adequately describe these phenomena, mathematical models need to consider the underlying microbial diversity. This is demonstrated in this contribution by extending the ADM1 to describe microbial diversity between organisms of the same functional group. The resulting model has been compared with the traditional ADM1 in describing experimental data of a pilot-scale hybrid Upflow Anaerobic Sludge Filter Bed (UASFB) reactor, as well as in a more detailed simulation study. The presented model is further shown useful in assessing the relationship between reactor performance and microbial community structure in mesophilic CSTRs seeded with slaughterhouse wastewater when facing increasing levels of ammonia.

Performance evaluation of a two-phase anaerobic digestion process of synthetic domestic wastewater at ambient temperature.A two-phase anaerobic digestion process of synthetic domestic wastewater was studied at ambient temperature in mild to cold climates. The hydrolytic stage was carried out in a continuous stirred tank reactor with an effective volume of 1.2 L. The hydrolytic reactor operated at hydraulic retention times (HRTs) in the range of 1.3 to 2.7 h, which allowed for optimum HRT to be obtained in order to achieve a maximum amount of soluble COD. For the methanogenic stage, an up-flow anaerobic filter with a volume of 1.35 L and corrugated plastic rings as biomass immobilization support were used. During the investigation, the ambient temperature ranged between 21 degrees C and 24 degrees C. Synthetic domestic wastewater with a COD of 700 mg/L was used as substrate. The study was performed at total organic loading rates (OLR(T)) of 2.0-4.3 g COD/L. d, with a global HRT (including both hydrolytic and methanogenic stages) of 2.8-5.8 hours. A maximum percentage of organic matter removed of 88% was achieved at a global HRT of 5.8 hours. Under these operating conditions, the production of biogas was 97% higher than that obtained in the one-phase anaerobic digestion process. Additionally, the kinetics involved in the hydrolytic stage was determined using the Contois kinetic model, which adequately predicted the experimental results.

The Pic protease of enteroaggregative Escherichia coli promotes intestinal colonization and growth in the presence of mucin.Enteroaggregative Escherichia coli (EAEC) is increasingly being recognized as a cause of diarrheal disease in diverse populations. No small animal model is currently available to study this pathogen. We report here that conventional mice orally inoculated with prototype EAEC strain 042 generally became colonized, though the abundance of organisms cultured from their stool varied substantially among individual animals. In contrast, mice whose water contained 5 g/liter streptomycin consistently became colonized at high levels (ca. 10(8) CFU/g of stool). Neither conventional nor streptomycin-treated mice developed clinical signs or histopathologic abnormalities. Using specific mutants in competition with the wild-type strain, we evaluated the contribution of several putative EAEC virulence factors to colonization of streptomycin-treated mice. Our data suggest that the dispersin surface protein and Pic, a serine protease autotransporter secreted by EAEC and Shigella flexneri, promote colonization of the mouse. In contrast, we found no role for the aggregative adherence fimbriae, the transcriptional activator AggR, or the surface factor termed Air (enteroaggregative immunoglobulin repeat protein). To study Pic further, we constructed a single nucleotide mutation in strain 042 which altered only the Pic catalytic serine (strain 042PicS258A). Fractionation of the tissue at 24 h and 3 days demonstrated an approximate 3-log(10) difference between 042 and 042PicS258A in the lumen and mucus layer and adherent to tissue. Strains 042 and 042PicS258A adhered similarly to mouse tissue ex vivo. While no growth differences were observed in a continuous-flow anaerobic intestinal simulator system, the wild-type strain exhibited a growth advantage over 042PicS258A in a culture of cecal mucus and in cecal contents in vitro; this difference was manifest only after 6 h of growth. Moreover, enhanced growth of the wild type was observed in comparison with that of the mutant in minimal medium containing mucin but not in the absence of mucin. The data suggest a novel metabolic role for the Pic mucinase in EAEC colonization.

GISCOD: general integrated solid waste co-digestion model.This paper views waste as a resource and anaerobic digestion (AD) as an established biological process for waste treatment, methane production and energy generation. A powerful simulation tool was developed for the optimization and the assessment of co-digestion of any combination of solid waste streams. Optimization was aimed to determine the optimal ratio between different waste streams and hydraulic retention time by changing the digester feed rates to maximize the biogas production rate. Different model nodes based on the ADM1 were integrated and implemented on the Matlab-Simulink simulation platform. Transformer model nodes were developed to generate detailed input for ADM1, estimating the particulate waste fractions of carbohydrates, proteins, lipids and inerts. Hydrolysis nodes were modeled separately for each waste stream. The fluxes from the hydrolysis nodes were combined and generated a detailed input vector to the ADM1. The integrated model was applied to a co-digestion case study of diluted dairy manure and kitchen wastes. The integrated model demonstrated reliable results in terms of calibration and optimization of this case study. The hydrolysis kinetics were calibrated for each waste fraction, and led to accurate simulation results of the process and prediction of the biogas production. The optimization simulated 200,000 days of virtual experimental time in 8 h and determined the feedstock ratio and retention time to set the digester operation for maximum biogas production rate.

Using bioprocess stoichiometry to build a plant-wide mass balance based steady-state WWTP model.Steady-state models are useful for design of wastewater treatment plants (WWTPs) because they allow reactor sizes and interconnecting flows to be simply determined from explicit equations in terms of unit operation performance criteria. Once the overall WWTP scheme is established and the main system defining parameters of the individual unit operations estimated, dynamic models can be applied to the connected unit operations to refine their design and evaluate their performance under dynamic flow and load conditions. To model anaerobic digestion (AD) within plant-wide WWTP models, not only COD and nitrogen (N) but also carbon (C) fluxes entering the AD need to be defined. Current plant-wide models, like benchmark simulation model No 2 (BSM2), impose a C flux at the AD influent. In this paper, the COD and N mass balance steady-state models of activated sludge (AS) organics degradation, nitrification and denitrification (ND) and anaerobic (AD) and aerobic (AerD) digestion of wastewater sludge are extended and linked with bioprocess transformation stoichiometry to form C, H, O, N, chemical oxygen demand (COD) and charge mass balance based models so that also C (and H and O) can be tracked through the whole WWTP. By assigning a stoichiometric composition (x, y, z and a in C(x)H(y)O(z)N(a)) to each of the five main influent wastewater organic fractions and ammonia, these, and the products generated from them via the biological processes, are tracked through the WWTP. The model is applied to two theoretical case study WWTPs treating the same raw wastewater (WW) to the same final sludge residual biodegradable COD. It is demonstrated that much useful information can be generated with the relatively simple steady-state models to aid WWTP layout design and track the different products exiting the WWTP via the solid, liquid and gas streams, such as aerobic versus anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge, N loads in recycle streams, methane production for energy recovery and green house gas (CO(2), CH(4)) generation. To reduce trial and error usage of WWTP simulation software, it is recommended that they are extended to include pre-processors based on mass balance steady-state models to assist with WWTP layout design, unit operation selection, reactor sizing, option evaluation and comparison and wastewater characterization before dynamic simulation.

Fermentation and growth kinetic study of Aeromonas caviae under anaerobic conditions.Although Aeromonas caviae is pathogenic to a broad range of invertebrates including human, frequent in aquatic environments, and potentially vital for acidogenesis in anaerobic digestion, virtually no biokinetic information on its anaerobic growth is at hand. Therefore, this study focused on evaluating its anaerobic growth kinetics on glucose. To provide a set of relevant biokinetic coefficients for modeling, a combination of curve fitting and numerical modeling was used. Microcultivations were performed at eight different initial glucose concentrations of 0.1 to 2.5 g l(-1) to establish a function of specific growth rate versus substrate concentration. A batch anaerobic bioreactor was then operated to collect a data set for the numerical analysis. Kinetic coefficients were estimated from three different biomass growth profiles monitored by optical density, volatile suspended solids (VSS), or DNA measurement, and applied for simulating continuous operations at various hydraulic retention times (HRTs). Assuming the influent glucose concentration is 5,000 mg l(-1), the substrate utilization efficiency predicted to be 77.2% to 92.0% at 17 to 36 h HRTs. For the VSS-model-based simulation, the washout HRT was estimated to be 16.6 h, and similar for the other models. Overall, the anaerobic biokinetic coefficients of A. caviae grown on glucose were successfully estimated and found to follow a substrate inhibition model.

Ammonia influence in anaerobic digestion of OFMSW.The anaerobic digestion of the organic fraction of municipal solid wastes is taking increasing importance in the recent years. The main problem of some anaerobic digestion process is the large quantity of ammonia that is released, especially when high solid digestion is implemented. A fraction of the supernatant is treated and the remaining is recirculated to maintain the reactor in the optimum solids concentration. The question arising is if this recirculation stream should also be treated to improve biogas production. However, when doing the latter the quantity of ammonia inside the reactor increases too which could lead to inhibit the reactor operation. In this paper it appears that not only free ammonia affects the methanogenic fermentation but also ammonium ion concentration. Biogas production profiles are estimated using the Gompertz model. On the other hand, inhibition constants are fitted using a non-competitive inhibition model equation Thus, 50% inhibition of biomethane production was observed at level of 215 and 468 mg NH3_N/L under mesophilic and thermophilic conditions. However, the methane generation under mesophilic and thermophilic conditions was reduced by 50% when ammonium ion reach concentrations of 3,860 and 5,600 mg NH4+_N/L respectively. Under mesophilic conditions, pH higher than 7 impacted the methanogens bacteria negatively. This threshold pH limit, is variable under thermophilic conditions, depending on the total ammonia concentration.

Biotransformation of aesculin by human gut bacteria and identification of its metabolites in rat urine.To observe the biotransformation process of a Chinese compound, aesculin, by human gut bacteria, and to identify its metabolites in rat urine.
Representative human gut bacteria were collected from 20 healthy volunteers, and then utilized in vitro to biotransform aesculin under anaerobic conditions. At 0, 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 24, 48 and 72 h post-incubation, 10 mL of culture medium was collected. Metabolites of aesculin were extracted 3 x from rat urine with methanol and analyzed by HPLC. For in vivo metabolite analysis, aesculetin (100 mg/kg) was administered to rats via stomach gavage, rat urine was collected from 6 to 48 h post-administration, and metabolite analysis was performed by LC/ESI-MS and MS/MS in the positive and negative modes.
Human gut bacteria could completely convert aesculin into aesculetin in vitro. The biotransformation process occurred from 8 to 24 h post-incubation, with its highest activity was seen from 8 to 12 h. The in vitro process was much slower than the in vivo process. In contrast to the in vitro model, six aesculetin metabolites were identified in rat urine, including 6-hydroxy-7-gluco-coumarin (M1), 6-hydroxy-7-sulf-coumarin (M2), 6, 7-di-gluco-coumarin (M3), 6-glc-7-gluco-coumarin (M4), 6-O-methyl-7-gluco-coumarin (M5) and 6-O-methyl-7-sulf-coumarin (M6). Of which, M2 and M6 were novel metabolites.
Aesculin can be transferred into aesculetin by human gut bacteria and is further modified by the host in vivo. The diverse metabolites of aesculin may explain its pleiotropic pharmaceutical effects.

In vitro model to study the modulation of the mucin-adhered bacterial community.There is an upsurge of interest in gastro-intestinal microbiology to improve the balance between positive and negative commensals. Mucosal bacteria make closer contact with the host than luminal ones and can therefore have a stronger health impact. An in vitro adhesion assay was developed to study the mucin colonization of bacteria from the mixed microbial communities of the Simulator of the Human Intestinal Microbial Ecosystem. Adhesion capacity differed substantially between bacteria and decreased from lactobacilli over fecal coliforms, bifidobacteria, and clostridia to total anaerobes. Lactobacillus rhamnosus GG adhered most selectively. Further, intestinal water lowered adhesion compared to phosphate-buffered saline. By processing the data to an Adhesion-Related Prebiotic Index, it was found that intestinal water stimulated adherence of positive commensals. Arabinoxylans decreased the adhesion capacity matrix independently, whereas inulin had less or no influence. Measurements of bacterial surface tension, surface hydrophobicity, liquid surface tension, and viscosity showed that bacterial adhesion to mucin agar is a matter of both non-specific and specific interactions. The developed methodology can be useful for the characterization of the relevant but barely investigated mucin-associated bacterial community in health and disease (e.g., IBD) as well as for its modulation with functional foods like prebiotics.

Modeling anaerobic digestion of aquatic plants by rumen cultures: cattail as an example.Despite of the significance of the anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic materials, only a limited number of studies have been carried out to evaluate the lignocellulosic digestion kinetics, and information about the modeling of this process is limited. In this work, a mathematical model, based on the Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 (ADM1), was developed to describe the anaerobic conversion of lignocellulose-rich aquatic plants, with cattail as an example, by rumen microbes. Cattail was fractionated into slowly hydrolysable fraction (SHF), readily hydrolysable fraction (RHF) and inert fraction in the model. The SHF was hydrolyzed by rumen microbes and resulted in the production of RHF. The SHF and RHF had different hydrolysis rates but both with surface-limiting kinetics. The rumen microbial population diversity, including the cattail-, butyrate-, acetate- and H(2)-degraders, was all incorporated in the model structure. Experiments were carried out to identify the parameters and to calibrate and validate this model. The simulation results match the experimental data, implying that the fractionation of cattail into two biodegradation parts, i.e., SHF and RHF, and modeling their hydrolysis rate with a surface-limiting kinetics were appropriate. The model was capable of simulating the anaerobic biodegradation of cattail by the rumen cultures.

Assessing amendment properties of digestate by studying the organic matter composition and the degree of biological stability during the anaerobic digestion of the organic fraction of MSW.The transformation of organic matter during anaerobic digestion of mixtures of energetic crops, cow slurry, agro-industrial waste and organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) was studied by analysing different samples at diverse points during the anaerobic digestion process in a full-scale plant. Both chemical (fiber analysis) and spectroscopic approaches ((13)C CPMAS NMR) indicated the anaerobic digestion process proceeded by degradation of more labile fraction (e.g. carbohydrate-like molecules) and concentration of more recalcitrant molecules (lignin and non-hydrolysable lipids). These modifications determined a higher degree of biological stability of digestate with respect to the starting mixture, as suggested, also, by the good correlations found between the cumulative oxygen uptake (OD(20)), and the sum of (cellulose+hemicellulose+cell soluble) contents of biomasses detected by fiber analysis (r=0.99; P<0.05), and both O-alkyl-C (r=0.98; P<0.05) and alkyl-C (r=-0.99; P<0.05) measured by (13)C CPMAS NMR.

Biogas production from boreal herbaceous grasses--specific methane yield and methane yield per hectare.The objective of this study was to determine the specific methane yields of four grass species (cocksfoot, tall fescue, reed canary grass and timothy) cultivated under boreal conditions as well as how harvesting time and year of cultivation affects the specific methane yields per ha. The specific methane yields of all grasses and all harvests varied from 253 to 394 Nl CH4/kg volatile solids (VS) added. The average specific methane yield of the 1st harvest of all grasses was higher than the 2nd harvests. In this study the methane and energy yields from different harvest years were ranged from 1200 to 3600 Nm(3) CH4/ha/a, corresponding from 12 to 36 MWh(CH4)/ha/a. The methane yield per hectare of the 1st harvest was always higher than that of the 2nd harvest per hectare because of the higher dry matter yield and specific methane yield. High biomass yield per hectare, good digestibility and regrowth ability after harvesting are important factors when choosing grass species for biogas production. If 30% of fallow and the second harvest of grassland were cultivated grasses and harvested for biogas production in Finland, the energy produced could be 4.9 TWh(CH4).

Hydrogen and methane production through two-stage mesophilic anaerobic digestion of olive pulp.The present study focused on the anaerobic biohydrogen production from olive pulp (two phase olive mill wastes, TPOMW) and the subsequent anaerobic treatment of the effluent for methane production under mesophilic conditions in a two-stage process. Biohydrogen production from water-diluted (1:4) olive pulp was investigated at hydraulic retention times (HRT) of 30 h, 14.5 h and 7.5 h while methane production from the effluent of hydrogenogenic reactor was studied at 20 d, 15 d, 10d and 5d HRT. In comparison with previous studies, it has been shown that the thermophilic hydrogen production process was more efficient than the mesophilic one in both hydrogen production rate and yield. The methanogenic reactor was successfully operated at 20, 15 and 10 days HRT while it failed when an HRT of 5 days was applied. Methane productivity reached the maximum value of 1.13+/-0.08 L/L/d at 10 days HRT whereas the methane yield increased with the HRT. The Anaerobic Digestion Model no. 1 (ADM1) was applied to the obtained experimental data from the methanogenic reactor to simulate the digester response at all HRT tested. The ability of the model to predict the experimental results was evident even in the case of the process failure, thus implying that the ADM1 could be a valuable tool for process design even in the case of a complex feedstock. In general, the two-stage anaerobic digestion proved to be a stable, reliable and effective process for energy recovery and stabilization treatment of olive pulp.

Applications of Anammox based processes to treat anaerobic digester supernatant at room temperature.The supernatant of an anaerobic digester was treated at 20 degrees C in two systems. The first one is a two units configuration, conformed by two sequencing batch reactors (SBR), carrying out partial nitrification and Anammox processes, respectively. Partial nitrification was achieved by granular biomass with a mean diameter of 3 mm, operating at a dissolved oxygen concentration of 2.7 mg/L. The combined system allowed the removal of nitrogen loading rates around 0.08 g N/(Ld). Afterwards, Anammox biomass was spontaneously developed in the inner core of the nitrifying granules of the SBR and therefore, partial nitrification and Anammox process were carried out in a single unit. Once the stable CANON process was established, a mean nitrogen removal rate of 0.8 g N/(Ld) was registered. The settling velocities of the granules ranged from 70 to 150 m/h with sludge volumetric index values lower than 50 mL/g VSS during the whole operation.

Towards the definition of a core of microorganisms involved in anaerobic digestion of sludge.The microbial consortium involved in anaerobic digestion has not yet been precisely characterized and this process remains a 'black box' with limited efficiency. In this study, seven anaerobic sludge digesters were selected based on technology, type of sludge, process and water quality. The prokaryotic community of these digesters was examined by constructing and analysing a total of 9890 16S rRNA gene clones. Libraries were constructed using primers specific for the Bacteria and Archaea domains for each digester, respectively. After phylogenetic affiliation, the libraries were compared using statistical tools to determine the similarities or differences among the seven digesters. Results show that the prokaryotic community of an anaerobic digester is composed of phylotypes commonly found in all anaerobic digesters sampled and also of specific phylotypes. The Archaea community is represented by an equilibrium among a restricted number of operational taxonomic units (OTUs). These OTUs are affiliated with Methanosarcinales, Methanomicrobiales and Arc I phylogenetic groups. Statistical analysis revealed that the Bacteria community can be described as a three component model: one-third making up a core group of phylotypes common to most of the digesters, one-third are phylotypes shared among a few digesters and another one-third are specific phylotypes. The core group is composed of only six OTUs affiliated with Chloroflexi, Betaproteobacteria, Bacteroidetes and Synergistetes. Its role in anaerobic degradation appears critical to investigate. This comparison of anaerobic digester populations is a first step towards a future understanding of the relationship among biodiversity, operating conditions and digester efficiency.

Assessment on the performance of a series of two UASB reactors compared against one of the same total volume using Anaerobic Digestion Model No 1 (ADM1).The ADM1 is applied to simulate the behaviour of an Upflow Anaerobic Sludge Blanket Reactor (UASB) treating blood powder (spray dried blood meal) wastewater. Considering a completely mixed liquid phase, the model is defined by a set of differential equations which can be numerically solved. Experimental data allows validating the output of the model which is then used for performing numerous simulations. A single reactor is compared to a series of two identical reactors of half the volume each. For the same total hydraulic retention time, the series reaches an outlet concentration 74% inferior to that of the single reactor. Furthermore, for the same total conversion the volume required by the series is 43% of that of the single reactor.

Rats selectively bred for low aerobic capacity have reduced hepatic mitochondrial oxidative capacity and susceptibility to hepatic steatosis and injury.Fatty liver has been linked to low aerobic fitness, but the mechanisms are unknown. We previously reported a novel model in which rats were artificially selected to be high capacity runners (HCR) and low capacity runners (LCR) that in a sedentary condition have robustly different intrinsic aerobic capacities. We utilized sedentary HCR/LCR rats (generation 17; max running distance equalled 1514 +/- 91 vs. 200 +/- 12 m for HCR and LCR, respectively) to investigate if low aerobic capacity is associated with reduced hepatic mitochondrial oxidative capacity and increased susceptibility to hepatic steatosis. At 25 weeks of age, LCR livers displayed reduced mitochondrial content (reduced citrate synthase activity and cytochrome c protein) and reduced oxidative capacity (complete palmitate oxidation in hepatic mitochondria (1.15 +/- 0.13 vs. 2.48 +/- 1.1 nm g(-1) h, P < 0.0001) and increased peroxisomal activity (acyl CoA oxidase and catalase activity) compared to the HCR. The LCR livers also displayed a lipogenic phenotype with higher protein content of both sterol regulatory element binding protein-1c and acetyl CoA carboxylase. These differences were associated with hepatic steatosis in the LCR including higher liver triglycerides (6.00 +/- 0.71 vs. 4.20 +/- 0.39 nmol g(-1), P = 0.020 value), >2-fold higher percentage of hepatocytes associated with lipid droplets (54.0 +/- 9.2 vs. 22.0 +/- 3.5%, P = 0.006), and increased hepatic lipid peroxidation compared to the HCR. Additionally, in rats aged to natural death, LCR livers had significantly greater hepatic injury (fibrosis and apoptosis). We provide novel evidence that selection for low intrinsic aerobic capacity causes reduced hepatic mitochondrial oxidative capacity that increases susceptibility to both hepatic steatosis and liver injury.

Short-chain fatty acids and polyamines in the pathogenesis of necrotizing enterocolitis: Kinetics aspects in gnotobiotic quails.Despite years of investigation, pathogenesis of necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) remains elusive. Bacterial metabolites were implicated by several authors but their roles remain controversial. The aim of our study was to investigate the role of SCFAs and polyamines through a kinetic study of histological and macroscopical digestive lesions in monobiotic quails. Germ-free quails, inoculated with a Clostridium butyricum strain involved in a NEC case, were fed or not with a diet including lactose (7%). Quails were sacrificed at various times between D7 and D24 after bacterial inoculation. NEC-like lesions, i.e. thickening, pneumatosis, and hemorrhages, occurred only in lactose-fed quails and increased with time. The main histological characteristics were infiltrates of mononuclear cells, then heterophilic cells, then gas cyst and necrosis. The first event observed, before histological and macroscopical lesions, is a high production of butyric acid, which precedes an increase of iNOS gene expression. No difference in polyamines contents depending on the diet was observed. These results show the major role of butyric acid produced by commensal bacteria in the onset of the digestive lesions.

Variation of ADM1 by using temperature-phased anaerobic digestion (TPAD) operation.The objective of the study was to examine the application of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) developed by the IWA task group for mathematical modelling of anaerobic process. Lab-scale temperature-phased anaerobic digestion (TPAD) process were operated continuously, and were fed with co-substrate composed of dog food and flour. The model platform implemented in the simulation was a derivative of the ADM1. Sensitivity analysis showed that k(m.process) (maximum specific uptake rate) and K(S.process) (half saturation value) had high sensitivities to model components. Important parameters including maximum uptake rate for propionate utilisers (k(m.pro)) and half saturation constant for acetate utilisers (K(S.ac)) in the thermophilic digester and maximum uptake rate for acetate utilisers (k(m.ac)) in the mesophilic digester were estimated using iterative methods, which optimized the parameters with experimental results. Simulation with estimated parameters showed good agreement with experimental results in the case of methane production, uptake of acetate, soluble chemical oxygen demand (SCOD) and total chemical oxygen demand (TCOD). Under these conditions, the model predicted reasonably well the dynamic behavior of the TPAD process for verifying the model.

Modified version of ADM1 model for agro-waste application.Agro-residues account for a large proportion of the wastes generated around the world. There is thus a need for a model to simulate the anaerobic digestion processes used in their treatment. We have developed model based on ADM1, to be applied to agro-wastes. We examined and tested the biodegradability of apple, pear, orange, rape, sunflower, pig manure and glycerol wastes to be used as the basis for feeding the model. Moreover, the fractions of particulate COD (X(c)) were calculated, and the disintegration constant was obtained from biodegradability profiles, considering disintegration to be the limiting process. The other kinetic and stoichiometric parameters were taken from the ADM1 model. The model operating under mono-substrate and co-substrate conditions was then validated with batch tests. At the same time the model was validated on a continuous anaerobic reactor operating with pig manure at lab scale. In both cases the correlation between the model and the experimental results was satisfactory. We conclude that the anaerobic digestion model is a reliable tool for the design and operation of plants in which agro-wastes are treated.

Targeting hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) signaling in therapeutics: implications for the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.In response to hypoxia, adaptive hypoxia-inducible factor-1 (HIF-1) signaling events are activated to increase oxygen transport, anaerobic energy production and protective pathways to minimize ischemic tissue damage. Although the activation and subsequent induction of gene transcription by HIF-1 is normally associated with hypoxia, it is now established that HIF-1 signaling can be triggered under inflammatory conditions. HIF-1 has been implicated in a number of inflammatory diseases including rheumatoid arthritis, allergic asthma, psoriasis and inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In the gastrointestinal tract, HIF-1-regulated gene products, such as vascular endothelial growth factor, intestinal trefoil factor and CD73, have been shown to provide protection in animal models of intestinal inflammation. Given the importance of HIF-1 signaling in the aforementioned diseases, there exists considerable interest in the development of methods to modulate HIF-1 expression as well as down-stream signaling events. This review examines HIF-1 signaling with a special focus on the gastrointestinal tract. The patents pertaining to the modulation of HIF-1 signaling are summarized, and their relevance to the treatment of inflammatory bowel disease is discussed.

[Anaerobic digestibility enhancement of sorted organic waste by alkaline hydrothermal pretreatment].Biochemical methane potential (BMP) of fallen leaf and model kitchen garbage were tested after alkaline hydrothermal pretreatment to investigate the effects of thermal-chemical treatment on the digestibility of waste. pH of hydrolysate decreased after pretreatment, and organics were solubilized acceleratedly and hydrolyzed into low molecular products. Different optimum hydrothermal conditions were obtained for different waste. The BMP of leaf was observed when hydrothermal temperature was above 150 degrees C under alkaline condition, and SCOD concentration was 13 203 mg/L. Kitchen garbage was completely liquidized and suspended at 130 degrees C and SCOD concentration was 12412 mg/L, and addition of alkali show unobvious influence on methane production. Maximum specific methane yield were 112 mL/g VS and 276 mL/g respectively. The conversion rates on the basis of total carbon were 24.81% and 53.34%.

Life cycle assessment of bagasse waste management options.Bagasse is mostly utilized for steam and power production for domestic sugar mills. There have been a number of alternatives that could well be applied to manage bagasse, such as pulp production, conversion to biogas and electricity production. The selection of proper alternatives depends significantly on the appropriateness of the technology both from the technical and the environmental points of view. This work proposes a simple model based on the application of life cycle assessment (LCA) to evaluate the environmental impacts of various alternatives for dealing with bagasse waste. The environmental aspects of concern included global warming potential, acidification potential, eutrophication potential and photochemical oxidant creation. Four waste management scenarios for bagasse were evaluated: landfilling with utilization of landfill gas, anaerobic digestion with biogas production, incineration for power generation, and pulp production. In landfills, environmental impacts depended significantly on the biogas collection efficiency, whereas incineration of bagasse to electricity in the power plant showed better environmental performance than that of conventional low biogas collection efficiency landfills. Anaerobic digestion of bagasse in a control biogas reactor was superior to the other two energy generation options in all environmental aspects. Although the use of bagasse in pulp mills created relatively high environmental burdens, the results from the LCA revealed that other stages of the life cycle produced relatively small impacts and that this option might be the most environmentally benign alternative.

CFD simulation of mechanical draft tube mixing in anaerobic digester tanks.Computational Fluid Dynamics (CFD) was used to simulate the mixing characteristics of four different circular anaerobic digester tanks (diameters of 13.7, 21.3, 30.5, and 33.5m) equipped with single and multiple draft impeller tube mixers. Rates of mixing of step and slug injection of tracers were calculated from which digester volume turnover time (DVTT), mixture diffusion time (MDT), and hydraulic retention time (HRT) could be calculated. Washout characteristics were compared to analytic formulae to estimate any presence of partial mixing, dead volume, short-circuiting, or piston flow. CFD satisfactorily predicted performance of both model and full-scale circular tank configurations.

Kinetics of anaerobic degradation of screened dairy manure by upflow fixed bed digesters: effect of natural zeolite addition.The effect of the hydraulic retention time (HRT) on the performance of two up-flow anaerobic fixed bed digesters (UFAFBDs) packed with waste tire rubber (D1) and waste tire rubber and zeolite (D2) as micro-organism immobilization supports was studied. It was found that a first-order kinetic model described well the experimental results obtained. The kinetic constants for COD, BOD5, total solids (TS) and volatile solids (VS) removal were determined to be higher in digester D2 than in digester D1 or control. Specifically, they were 0.28 +/- 0.01, 0.32 +/- 0.02, 0.16 +/- 0.01 and 0.24 +/- 0.01 d(- 1) respectively for D1 and 0.33 +/- 0.02, 0.40 +/- 0.02, 0.21 +/- 0.01 and 0.28 +/- 0.01 d(- 1) respectively for D2. This was significant at the 95% confidence level. In addition, the first-order model was also adequate for assessing the effect of the HRT on the removal efficiency and methane production. Maximum methane yield and the first-order constant for methane production were determined and the results obtained were comparable with those obtained by other authors but operating at higher HRTs. Maximum methane yields and the kinetic constant for methane production were 11.1% and 29.4% higher in digester D2 than in D1.

Probiotic administration alters the gut flora and attenuates colitis in mice administered dextran sodium sulfate.Probiotics are used in the therapy of inflammatory bowel disease. This study aimed to determine whether prior administration of probiotic lactobacilli and bifidobacteria would prevent disease and change gut flora in an animal model of colitis.
Swiss albino mice received a probiotic mixture (four Lactobacillus and four Bifidobacterium species) or medium (control) for a week prior to induction of colitis by oral 4% dextran sodium sulfate (DSS) for seven days. Appropriate non-colitis controls were used. Histological damage was assessed (n = 5 per group), as was expression of mRNA for tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interferon (IFN)-gamma, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 and SOCS-1 in the colonic mucosa (n = 6 per group). Secretion of TNF-alpha was measured in distal colon organ culture (n = 5-6 per group). Levels of Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium, and Lactobacillus acidophilus in feces were quantified by real time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) targeting 16S rDNA.
Compared to untreated DSS colitis, probiotic treatment significantly reduced weight loss (P < 0.05), shifted histological damage to lesser grades of severity (P < 0.001), reduced mRNA expression of TNF-alpha and TGF-beta1 (P < 0.05), and down-regulated production of TNF-alpha from distal colon explants (P < 0.05). Colitis induced a significant reduction in the relative proportions of Bifidobacterium, Bacteroides and Lactobacillus acidophilus group bacteria in feces, and these levels were significantly increased in probiotic-treated mice compared to DSS mice (P < 0.001).
Prior administration of probiotic bacteria reduced mucosal inflammation and damage in DSS-induced colitis. DSS colitis was associated with significant changes in the fecal anaerobic bacterial flora and these changes were modulated by administration of probiotic bacteria.

Partial nitritation of raw anaerobic sludge digester liquor by swim-bed and swim-bed activated sludge processes and comparison of their sludge characteristics.This study evaluated performance of swim-bed (SB) reactors packed with a novel acrylic fiber carrier (BF) and swim-bed activated sludge (SBAS) reactor for partial nitritation of anaerobic sludge digester liquor from a municipal wastewater treatment plant. Comparison of characteristics of sludge obtained from both the reactors was also made. The average conversion rates of ammonium to nitrite were 52.3% and 40.0% under relatively high nitrogen loading rates over 3.0 kg-N/m(3)/d, respectively in two reactors. The average BOD(5) removal efficiencies were 74.3% and 64.4%, respectively in the two reactors. The size of the sludge pellets taken from SB and SBAS reactors was found to be approximately three times (229 mum versus 88 mum) of that of the seed sludge. This sludge also had relatively high extracellular proteins levels indicating better sludge settling capability as compared to the sludge taken from SBAS reactor. Although the effluent nitrite/ammonium ratios had fluctuated in both reactor in some extent, the low dissolved oxygen concentration (average of 2.5 versus 0.35 mg/l), low suspended solids (average of 33.3 versus 33.5 mg/l), and about 50% ammonium conversion to nitrite demonstrated the application potential of anammox process for nitrogen removal.

Enumeration of some cultivable bacterial groups and characterization of some abiotic variables in the jejunoileal content of Prim'Holstein veal calves.A study was conducted to characterize the bacterial and biochemical composition of the jejunoileal content of veal calves and the effect of pre-slaughter fasting time. At 22 wk of age, 22 preruminant Prim'Holstein calves fed milk replacer and pellets (mainly composed of corn) were slaughtered at 6, 12, or 24 h after their last meal. Chyme samples were collected from the jejunoileal compartment just after slaughter, and pH and redox potential were immediately measured. Culture-based methods were used to determine the concentrations of total anaerobic microflora, lactate-utilizing bacteria, Bacteroides fragilis group, Lactobacilli, Bifidobacteria, Enterococci, and 2 potential pathogenic species, Escherichia coli and Clostridium perfringens. Concentrations of l-lactate, ammonia, and short-chain fatty acids (SCFA) were determined on frozen samples. The biochemical composition (DM, total protein, lactose, galactose, glucose, minerals, AA profile, and fatty acid profile) of the jejunoileal content was determined only on samples from the 6-h fasted group. Microflora concentrations were greater (P < 0.01) in the 6-h fasted group compared with the 12- and 24-h fasted groups, involving a decreased pH (P < 0.05) and greater lactate and SCFA concentrations, both linked directly to the fermentative state of the microorganisms. The 6-h fasted group showed the least interanimal variability in bacterial group levels, except for Cl. perfringens, which presented increased interanimal variability regardless of fasting time. At 6 h postprandial, the jejunoileal content of veal calves seemed to be in a stable state, allowing the creation of a database on its biochemical composition. This study is a key first step in the development of an in vitro system for modeling the jejunoileal ecosystem of veal calves. This model will provide a useful tool for assessing the effects of feed additives on intestinal microflora.

CFD simulation of mixing in anaerobic digesters.A three-dimensional CFD model incorporating the rheological properties of sludge was developed and applied to quantify mixing in a full-scale anaerobic digester. The results of the model were found to be in good agreement with experimental tracer response curve. In order to predict the dynamics of mixing, a new parameter, UI (uniformity index) was defined. The visual patterns of tracer mixing in simulation were well reflected in the dynamic variation in the value of UI. The developed model and methods were applied to determine the required time for complete mixing in a full-scale digester at different solid concentrations. This information on mixing time is considered to be useful in optimizing the feeding cycles for better digester performance.

Feasibility of anaerobic co-digestion as a treatment option of meat industry wastes.The anaerobic biodegradability of meat industry wastes was investigated in mesophilic batch reactors and combined with a mathematical model for describing their biodegradable fractions. The characteristics and methane yield achieved when digesting waste sludge, suggested the use of this as co-substrate for enhancing the biodegradability of the other wastes. The co-digestion experiments showed that it would be feasible to co-digest cow manure or ruminal waste with waste sludge, but biodegradability of pig/cow slurries was not improved, being strongly influenced by the ammonium concentration of co-digestion mixture. By applying the mathematical model, it was observed that when increasing the amount of waste sludge in the co-digestion mixtures, the amount of inert and slowly biodegradable fractions decreased leading to an increase in readily biodegradable fractions, volatile solid removal efficiencies and methane yields. These results suggest that using readily biodegradable wastes as co-substrate, the anaerobic biodegradability of complex organic wastes can be improved.

Enhancing anaerobic hydrolysis of cattle manure in leachbed reactors.In this study, it is hypothesized that anaerobic hydrolysis of organic solid wastes (OSWs) in leachbed reactors can be enhanced by two approaches: (1) by increasing the porosity of the leachbed; and (2) by seeding the bed with brown-rot fungi or anaerobically digested residues. The hypothesis is verified using cattle manure as a model OSW and pistachios-half-shell as an inert additive to increase the porosity of the leachbed. The enhancement was quantified in terms of volatile fatty acid (VFA) generation and soluble COD generation. Results of this study showed that 15% more VFAs and 8% more soluble COD can be obtained at higher bed porosities and with brown-rot fungi or digested residues as the seed. Compared to a leachbed without any recirculation, porosity enhancement, nor seed addition, the VFA yield (g VFA/g manure) in a leachbed with pistachios-half-shell as porosity enhancers was 193% higher; that in a leachbed with leachate recirculation (of 4 L/day), pistachios-half-shell as porosity enhancers, and brown-rot fungi or digested sludge as seed was 230% higher.

Monofermentation of grass silage under mesophilic conditions: measurements and mathematical modeling with ADM 1.In this paper experimental data from grass fermentation and simulation results with the Anaerobic Digestion Model (ADM) No. 1 are described. Two laboratory reactors were operated under mesophilic conditions with volumetric loading rates in between 0.3 and 2.5 kg(VS)/(m(3) x d). Two different kinds of grass silage were used as substrates, resulting in an average specific biogas production of 600 L/kg(VS). The ADM 1 was calibrated both manually and with the help of a Genetic Algorithm in Matlab/Simulink. Results from calibration indicate that the NH3 inhibition constant used to model the inhibition of acetate uptake is three to five times higher compared with digested activated sludge. The hydrogen inhibition constants applied for propionate and valerate/butyrate uptake are around two orders of magnitude lower than for sludge digestion.

Mathematical modelling of disintegration-limited co-digestion of OFMSW and sewage sludge.This paper presents a mathematical model able to simulate under dynamic conditions the physical, chemical and biological processes prevailing in a OFMSW and sewage sludge anaerobic digestion system. The model proposed is based on differential mass balance equations for substrates, products and bacterial groups involved in the co-digestion process and includes the biochemical reactions of the substrate conversion and the kinetics of microbial growth and decay. The main peculiarity of the model is the surface based kinetic description of the OFMSW disintegration process, whereas the pH determination is based on a nine-order polynomial equation derived by acid-base equilibria. The model can be applied to simulate the co-digestion process for several purposes, such as the evaluation of the optimal process conditions in terms of OFMSW/sewage sludge ratio, temperature, OFMSW particle size, solid mixture retention time, reactor stirring rate, etc. Biogas production and composition can also be evaluated to estimate the potential energy production under different process conditions. In particular, model simulations reported in this paper show the model capability to predict the OFMSW amount which can be treated in the digester of an existing MWWTP and to assess the OFMSW particle size diminution pre-treatment required to increase the rate of the disintegration process, which otherwise can highly limit the co-digestion system.

Prediction of thermal hydrolysis pretreatment on anaerobic digestion of waste activated sludge.Thermal hydrolysis is known for an efficient sludge disintegration capability to enhance biogas potential--but to which extent? Obviously, residual VSS concentration in digested sludge gives not sufficient information to predict additional biogas potential. In this paper, different types of waste activated sludge (WAS) were pre-hydrolysed by a full-scale Thermo-Pressure-Hydrolysis Process (Thermo-Druck-Hydrolyse, TDH) and break-down mechanisms on specific organic compounds were investigated. The IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 (ADM1) has been used for a systematic analysis of monitoring data gained from experimental work. The TDH process combined with anaerobic digestion can be well described by a modified ADM1 model that includes an X(P)-fraction (inactivated aerobic biomass and their decay products). More rapid and more complete degradation of TDH-treated sludge is represented by calibrated disintegration rate and disintegration factors, while biokinetic parameters of acetogenesis and methanogenesis show no sensitivity. TDH process impacts mainly biomass and decay products while inerts Xi already contained in the raw wastewater are hardly converted. Final concentration of soluble inerts in digestion effluent has been increased from 2% to 9% of influent COD due to thermal hydrolysis. An increase in biogas generation (ca. +80%) and in ammonia release (ca. +75%) can be explained by complete degradation of cell mass.

Application of the IWA ADM1 model to simulate anaerobic co-digestion of organic waste with waste activated sludge in mesophilic condition.Anaerobic digestion model no. 1 model of international water association was applied to a full scale anaerobic co-digestion process for the treatment of the organic fraction of municipal solid wastes along with activated sludge wastes originating from a municipal wastewater treatment plant. This operation was carried out in a digester of 2000 m(3) in volume. It is operates at an average hydraulic retention time of 26.9 days with an average organic loading rate of 1.01 kg TVS/m(3) day, at a temperature of 37 degrees C with an average gas production rate of 0.296 m(3)/m(3) day. The aim of the present study is to compare the results obtained from the simulation with the experimental values. The simulated results showed a good fit for pH, methane and carbon dioxide percentages, biogas volume, chemical oxygen demand, total volatile fatty acids, inorganic nitrogen and inorganic carbon.

Monitoring the role of aceticlasts in anaerobic digestion: activity and capacity.Aceticlastic methanogens are seen as a key to digester capacity and stability. This paper develops and applies an assay to measure digester stability by measuring the maximum aceticlastic methane production rate (Vmax,ac). The Vmax,ac in combination with acetate concentrations was found to be an effective digestion monitoring tool to indicate process upsets. At steady state, thermophilic, first stage and short SRT digesters generally had a greater Vmax,ac than mesophilic, second stage or long SRT digesters. The ratio of the Vmax,ac to the plant aceticlastic methane production rate, termed the Acetate Capacity Number (ACN), is a measure of the excess capacity of the digester. Either Vmax,ac or ACN can be used to estimate the capability to handle higher organic loading rates. Monod modeling was used to predict Vmax,ac, ACN and maximum VS loading rates for mesophilic and thermophilic digestion and for staged digesters to better understand expected digestion capacity and stability.

Cellulose hydrolysis by a methanogenic culture enriched from landfill waste in a semi-continuous reactor.This study investigates the hydrolysis of cellulose by a mixed culture enriched from landfill waste in a continuous reactor operated under prolonged residence times to accommodate methanogenic conditions. Chemostat studies of hydrolysis under balance methanogenic conditions are rarely reported, despite the importance of hydrolysis under these conditions in waste management and renewable energy industries. Continuous digestion was studied in a 1.25l digester, fed with a 1% (w/v) slurry of 50mum cellulose in sterilized leachate drawn from a 220l digester operated on a feedstock of mixed municipal solid waste. Unsterilized leachate was used as the inoculum. Stable and rapid hydrolytic conditions were established at residence time of 2.5, 3.5 and 5d with a 1st order hydrolysis rate 0.45+/-0.07d(-1) and high methane yields ranging from 57% to 62% of solubilised cellulose on a COD basis. Biomass yields were between 32% and 35% of solubilised cellulose on a COD basis, over three times that observed with fermentative cultures. This is attributed to the diversity of the microbial population which fully converted solubilised COD to methane, as evident by VFA yields of less than 8% on a COD basis.

Phosphorus recovery from anaerobic digester supernatant by struvite crystallization: model-based evaluation of a fluidized bed reactor.This paper is an attempt to model the UBC (University of British Columbia) MAP (Magnesium Ammonium Phosphate) fluidized bed crystallizer. A mathematical model is developed based on the assumption of perfect size classification of struvitre crystals in the reactor and considering the movement of liquid phase as a plug flow pattern. The model predicts variation of species concentration of struvite along the crystal bed height. The species concentrations at two extreme ends (inlet and outlet) are then used to evaluate the reactor performance. The model predictions provide a reasonable good fit with the experimental results for both PO4-P and NH4-N removals. Another important aspect of this model is its capability of predicting the crystals size and the bed voidage at different height of the reactor. Those predictions also match fairly well with the experimental observations. Therefore, this model can be used as a tool for performance evaluation of the reactor and can also be extended to optimize the struvite crystallization process in the UBC MAP reactor.

Methanosarcina as the dominant aceticlastic methanogens during mesophilic anaerobic digestion of putrescible waste.Taking into account isotope (13)C value a mathematical model was developed to describe the dynamics of methanogenic population during mesophilic anaerobic digestion of putrescible solid waste and waste imitating Chinese municipal solid waste. Three groups of methanogens were considered in the model including unified hydrogenotrophic methanogens and two aceticlastic methanogens Methanosaeta sp. and Methanosarcina sp. It was assumed that Methanosaeta sp. and Methanosarcina sp. are inhibited by high volatile fatty acids concentration. The total organic and inorganic carbon concentrations, methane production, methane and carbon dioxide partial pressures as well as the isotope (13)C incorporation in PSW and CMSW were used for the model calibration and validation. The model showed that in spite of the high initial biomass concentration of Methanosaeta sp. Methanosarcina sp. became the dominant aceticlastic methanogens in the system. This prediction was confirmed by FISH. It is concluded that Methanosarcina sp. forming multicellular aggregates may resist to inhibition by volatile fatty acids (VFAs) because a slow diffusion rate of the acids limits the VFA concentrations inside the Methanosarcina sp. aggregates.

Extension of the anaerobic digestion model No. 1 (ADM1) to include phenolic compounds biodegradation processes for the simulation of anaerobic co-digestion of olive mill wastes at thermophilic temperature.This paper describes for the first time the extension of the anaerobic digestion model No. 1 (ADM1) to handle and simulate the anaerobic degradation processes of phenol compounds and homologues in olive mill wastewater (OMW) and olive mill solid waste (OMSW) at thermophilic temperature (55 degrees C). The general structure of the ADM1 was not changed except for the modifications related to the inclusion of phenolic compounds degradation processes into acetate and further into methane and CO(2). The effect of soluble phenolic compounds upon pH was taken into account in the pH simulation equations. The inhibitory effect of phenolic compounds on the fermenting process and methanogenic sub-populations was accounted for by the use of non-competitive inhibition functions. The most sensitive and new phenolic parameters were calibrated and validated using experimental data from our previous study dealing with the thermophilic anaerobic co-digestion of OMW with OMSW in semi-continuous tubular digesters. The simulation results indicated that the extended ADM1 was able to predict with reasonable accuracy effluent phenol concentrations and gas flow rates and effluent pH of various influent concentrations digested at hydraulic retention times (HRTs) of 36 and 24 days.

Evaluation of methods for preparing hydrogen-producing seed inocula under thermophilic condition by process performance and microbial community analysis.Five methods for preparation of hydrogen-producing seeds (base, acid, 2-bromoethanesulfonic acid (BESA), load-shock and heat shock treatments) as well as an untreated anaerobic digested sludge were compared for their hydrogen production performance and responsible microbial community structures under thermophilic condition (60 degrees C). The results showed that the load-shock treatment method was the best for enriching thermophilic hydrogen-producing seeds from mixed anaerobic cultures as it completely repressed methanogenic activity and gave the a maximum hydrogen production yield of 1.96 mol H(2) mol(-1) hexose with an hydrogen production rate of 11.2 mmol H(2) l(-1)h(-1). Load-shock and heat-shock treatments resulted in a dominance of Thermoanaerobacterium thermosaccharolyticum with acetic acid and butyric acid type of fermentation while base- and acid-treated seeds were dominated by Clostridium sp. and BESA-treated seeds were dominated by Bacillus sp. The comparative experimental results from hydrogen production performance and microbial community analysis showed that the load-shock treatment method was better than the other four methods for enriching thermophilic hydrogen-producing seeds from anaerobic digested sludge. Load-shock treated sludge was implemented in palm oil mill effluent (POME) fermentation and was found to give maximum hydrogen production rates of 13.34 mmol H(2) l(-1)h(-1) and resulted in a dominance of Thermoanaerobacterium spp. Load-shock treatment is an easy and practical method for enriching thermophilic hydrogen-producing bacteria from anaerobic digested sludge.

Identification of Cabernet Sauvignon anthocyanin gut microflora metabolites.Anthocyanins are polyphenol antioxidants that have been shown to prevent many chronic diseases, including colon cancer. The compounds are largely metabolized by various enzymes and bacteria in the large intestine, and the health benefits of consuming foods rich in anthocyanins could be due mostly to the effects of these metabolites. In this study, the contents of the large intestine of pigs were used to model anthocyanin metabolism because pig and human intestinal microflora are similar. An anthocyanin extract from Cabernet Sauvignon grapes that contained delphinidin-3-glucoside, petunidin-3-glucoside, peonidin-3-glucoside, and malvidin-3-glucoside was employed. The extract was incubated anaerobically in the contents of the large intestine of freshly slaughtered pigs for 0, 0.5, and 6 h (final concentrations of 20.9, 28.2, 61.4, and 298.0 microM of the above anthocyanin compounds, respectively, at t = 0 h). Anthocyanins and their metabolites were measured by LC-ESI-MS. After 6 h, anthocyanins were no longer detected, and three metabolites were identified as 3-O-methylgallic acid, syringic acid, and 2,4,6-trihydroxybenzaldehyde. Results from this study suggest that consumption of Cabernet Sauvignon grape anthocyanins could lead to the formation of specific metabolites in the human gut, and it is possible that these metabolites offer the protective effect against colon cancer attributed to anthocyanin consumption.

ADM1 can be applied to continuous bio-hydrogen production using a variable stoichiometry approach.The IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 (ADM1) has been extensively used in recent years. However, its application to non-methanogenic systems is limited by the use of constant-stoichiometry to describe product formation from carbohydrate fermentation. This study presents a modification of the ADM1 using a variable stoichiometry approach, derived from experimental information. The biomass and product yields from glucose degradation are assumed to be dynamically depending on the total concentration of undissociated acids in the reactor. Experimental data from an 11 L mesophilic continuous bio-hydrogen reactor fed with 20, 40, 50 and 10 g/L of sucrose, were used to validate the approach. The modified model achieved good predictions of the experimental data, using the standard ADM1 parameter values, without any parameter fitting beyond the implementation of the variable stoichiometry. The modification approach proposed extends the applicability of the ADM1 to non-methanogenic fermentative systems and in particular to continuous bio-hydrogen production.

Modeling anaerobic digestion of dairy manure using the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model no. 1 (ADM1).The Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) can be used to describe treatment of dairy manure once manure characteristics have been incorporated in the model. In this paper a parameter set is presented that can be used with ADM1 for simulation of dairy manure digester performance. Model results have been verified with bench-scale experiments and reported data from full-scale systems. Model predictions fit experimental data best for biogas composition and digester effluent COD. Simulated biogas productions were inconsistent with measurements from three different digesters. The model overpredicted acetogenesis, resulting in higher simulated than observed acetate concentrations. However, total volatile acid concentrations were simulated reasonably well. The model consistently predicted higher inorganic nitrogen than measured or reported results, indicating a need for further research in that area. The presented model and associated parameter set can be used to simulate and optimize the performance of full-scale dairy manure digesters.

Energy- and CO2-reduction potentials by anaerobic treatment of wastewater and organic kitchen wastes in consideration of different climatic conditions.The classical municipal wastewater treatment in Germany consists of an aerobic carbon and nitrogen elimination and mostly an anaerobic sludge treatment. Organic kitchen wastes from separate waste collection as well as yard wastes are converted mostly in composting plants to soil conditioner. With these conventional types of treatment, the energy potential in waste and wastewater is lost due to aerobic material conversion. In this article three scenarios for the treatment of municipal wastewater and waste are compared on the subject of energy efficiency and useable potential: Sc1. the classical wastewater treatment and the composting of the organic waste fraction, Sc2. the anaerobic treatment of wastewater combined with deammonification and the digestion of the organic waste fraction, and Sc3. a mutual anaerobic treatment of wastewater and waste as co-digestion with deammonification. The calculation of energy and CO2-balance considers different climatic conditions. In case of using anaerobic treatment, not only the energy balance will be positive, also the CO2-balance is improved by the substitution of fossil fuels with generated biogas.

Simple and rapid methods to evaluate methane potential and biomass yield for a range of mixed solid wastes.This paper describes rapid techniques to evaluate the methane potential and biomass yield of solid wastes. A number of solid wastes were mixed to provide a range of C:N ratios. Empirical formulae were calculated for each waste based on the results of chemical analysis and these formulae were used to estimate the COD equivalent and stoichiometric methane potential (SMP). The actual COD and biochemical methane potential (BMP) were determined experimentally for each waste and for both parameters there was a good agreement between the empirical and experimental values. The potential of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to act as an indicator of biomass yield (mg VSS mg(-1) COD removed) was determined during the anaerobic digestion process. The biomass yield determined from ATP analysis was in the range 0.01-0.25mg VSS mg(-1) COD removed which corroborated well with previously reported studies. Empirical formula based SMP together with ATP measurement were shown to provide rapid methods to replace or augment the traditional BMP and VSS measurements and are useful for evaluating the bioenergy and biomass potential of solid wastes for anaerobic digestion.

Combined anaerobic digestion and biological nitrogen removal for piggery wastewater treatment: a modelling approach.In order to deal with the environmental problems associated with animal production industrialization and at the same time considering energy costs increasing, a piggery wastewater treatment process consisting of combined anaerobic digestion and biological nitrogen removal by activated sludge was developed. This contribution presents a modelling framework in order to optimize this process. Modified versions of the well established ASM1 and ADM1 models have been used. The ADM1 was extended with biological denitrification. pH calculation and liquid gas-transfer were modified to take into account the effect of associated components. Finally, two interfaces (ADMtoASM and ASMtoADM) were built in order to combine both models. These interfaces set up the COD, nitrogen, alkalinity and charge fractionation between both models. However, for the mass balances between both models, some hypotheses were considered and might be evaluated.

Investigations and mathematical simulation on decentralized anaerobic treatment of agricultural substrate from livestock farming.Anaerobic processes are widely used for treatment of both municipal and industrial wastewater as well as agricultural substrates. In contrast to the aerobic methods, they are frequently more cost-efficient, they have a lower surplus sludge production, and the reactors can be run with higher volumetric loads and thus smaller volumes. In the paper presented both experimental data and the application of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 for agricultural substrate from livestock farming will be described. A 3,500 L reactor with mesophilic operation and loaded with cattle manure was examined with respect to its COD degradation, gas production, and gas composition. Results revealed a reduction of 30-35% COD and a biogas production of 287 L(Biogas)/kg(VS) when operated with a specific loading rate of 3.6 kg(VS)/(m(3).d).After calibration of the ADM 1, which was based predominantly on the acetate uptake rate (k(ac.m)=3.6 g/(g.d)), the disintegration constant (k(Dis)=0.05 d(-1)) and the exact determination of the influent COD fractions contained in the agricultural substrate, it was possible to simulate the measured data of the plant in excellent quality. For future application of the ADM 1 as part of control strategies a sensitivity analysis was carried out. The analysis based on the SVM slope technique has been done to identify highly sensitive biochemical parameters. These are, amongst others, the acetate uptake rate, the disintegration constant, the biomass decay rates and the half saturation constant for ammonia inhibition. Sensitivity analysis of the inflow COD fractions (proteins, carbohydrates, lipids and inert) showed the necessity of detailed measurements for the prediction of the gas flow and composition as well as for prognosis of inhibitions in the anaerobic process. For cattle manure especially the fractions of inert material and carbohydrates should be observed carefully. Due to the high content of NH(4)-N in manure the protein fraction is not as sensitive as the two mentioned above.

Gene expression analysis of a human enterocyte cell line reveals downregulation of cholesterol biosynthesis in response to short-chain fatty acids.It has been suggested that the short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) produced by anaerobic bacterial intestinal fermentation of soluble fiber may regulate lipid metabolism in intestine, thus reducing plasma cholesterol levels. However, the exact mechanism of action of SCFAs in lowering cholesterol levels is not fully understood. The aims of this study were to test the effects of SCFAs on gene expression in a human enterocyte cell line Caco-2/TC-7 and to validate microarray data by real-time PCR. Human Caco-2/TC-7 enterocytes were cultured on transwell filter inserts and incubated with the SCFAs acetate (Ac), propionate (Pr), and butyrate (Bu). Total RNA was then isolated for microarrays and quantitative real-time PCR analysis. Treatment of human enterocytes with Pr and Bu affects a wide variety of genes. These genes were classified according to the PANTHER classification system, and the results showed that different biological processes and metabolic pathways were modified by Pr and Bu treatment, including the intestinal cholesterol biosynthesis pathway. Differential array expression analysis showed that nine genes were downregulated in this pathway, and these results were validated by real-time PCR. This in vitro study allowed us to identify a wide variety of biological processes and metabolic pathways affected by the SCFAs tested. Importantly, our results show that the global effect of Pr and Bu is to downregulate the expression of nine key genes involved in intestinal cholesterol biosynthesis, thus possibly inhibiting this pathway.

Commissioning of the gigantic anaerobic sludge digesters at the wastewater treatment plant of Athens.The pre-commissioning strategy, the start-up procedure and the analytical data obtained during the commissioning period for the first of the four new anaerobic gigantic digesters, with active volume of 10,000 m3 each, are presented in this paper. The digester was initially filled up with water, and the temperature was raised to 36 +/- 1 degrees C. Then, a total amount of 1,860 m3 of digested primary sludge was transferred, in four equal daily batches, into the digester from neighbouring digesters, performing routine operation. Following this, the digester was gradually fed with fresh primary thickened sludge, up to the point that the retention time reached approximately 20 d. A number of significant operational parameters (pH, alkalinity, total and volatile solids concentration, volatile fatty acids concentration, biogas production rate and composition) were monitored several times per day, and the appropriate adjustments were performed in order to achieve stable operation. The time duration of the whole process was about two and a half months. Later on, the digester was supplied with a mixture of primary and biological sludge.

Partially hydrolyzed guar gum attenuates the severity of pouchitis in a rat model of ileal J pouch-anal anastomosis.We aimed to evaluate the efficacy of treatment with partially hydrolyzed guar gum (PHGG) using a rat model of ileal pouch-anal anastomosis and pouchitis. In the J pouch groups, tissue myeloperoxidase activities were significantly higher than native myeloperoxidase activities (P = 0.020; P = 0.015; P = 0.004, respectively). A statistically significant difference in total histological score was detected in the J pouch + 5% dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) group, compared to the J pouch control and the J pouch + 5% DSS + PHGG groups (P < 0.01 and P < 0.01, respectively). There was a significant overgrowth of aerobes and anaerobes in the J pouch + 5% DSS group. This study demonstrated that rectal administration of PHGG attenuates the severity of pouchitis in a rat model. In conclusion, PHGG may be an additional therapeutic strategy for the treatment of pouchitis.

Animal shed Bacillus licheniformis spores possess allergy-protective as well as inflammatory properties.Numerous epidemiologic studies have demonstrated an allergy-protective effect of farm life early in childhood. It has been hypothesized that environmental exposure to microbes may contribute to this effect. Because of their small size and thereby their potential for deposition in lower airways of small children, bacterial spores may be candidates for such allergy-protective effects.
To investigate immune responses elicited by exposure to Bacillus spores in experimental settings.
Animal shed and mattress dusts were analyzed for bacteria and fungi by aerobic and anaerobic growth. Bacillus licheniformis, the most prominent microorganism found in these samples, was investigated with respect to spore specific stimulation of pattern recognition receptors, monocyte-derived dendritic cells and T(H)-cell polarization in vitro as well as to the prevention of asthma development in a mouse model of allergic asthma.
In vitro, B. licheniformis spores activated a T(H)1 cytokine expression profile. In vivo application of these spores resulted in less spore-specific but long-lasting immune activation preventing eosinophilia and goblet cell hyperplasia; however, they provoked an influx of neutrophils in lung tissue of asthmatic mice.
Bacterial spores may contribute to the allergy-protective properties of farming environments, but their persistence in the lung causes ongoing immune activation in mouse experiments.

Modelling the effect of the antimicrobial tylosin on the performance of an anaerobic sequencing batch reactor.A laboratory-scale anaerobic sequencing batch reactor (ASBR) was fed a synthetic wastewater containing glucose to study the effects of the antimicrobial tylosin on treatment performance. Measurements of methane, volatile fatty acids, and COD concentrations suggested that the addition of 1.67 mg/L and 167 mg/l of tylosin to the synthetic wastewater inhibited propionate oxidizing syntrophic bacteria and aceticlastic methanogens. The latter is presumed to be an indirect effect. A modified version of the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) with extensions for microbial storage and hydrolysis of reserve carbohydrates, and tylosin liquid-solid mass transfer and inhibition adequately described the dynamic profiles observed in the ASBR.

Effects of purification on the bioavailability of botulinum neurotoxin type A.Botulinum neurotoxins (BoNTs) are among the most potent biological toxins for humans. They are primarily produced by the gram-positive, anaerobic spore-forming bacterium, Clostridium botulinum. In bacterial cultures, secreted BoNTs are associated with non-toxic accessory proteins forming large complexes. Neurotoxin-associated proteins have been shown to play an important role in the oral toxicity of BoNTs by protecting them from degradation and digestion by gastric acid and enzymes. Most toxicity studies using BoNTs have been performed using highly purified toxin. In this study, the toxicities of purified and crude BoNT/A toxin preparations were compared. Protein components secreted into culture supernatants along with BoNT/A were identified by mass spectrometry and the contribution of extra proteins found in the soluble crude toxin extracts to the toxicity of BoNTs was determined in mouse models of oral and parenteral botulinum intoxication. Analysis of crude toxin composition permitted assessment of the impact of accessory proteins on the oral bioavailability of BoNT/A toxin in food matrices.

A novel application of TPAD-MBR system to the pilot treatment of chemical synthesis-based pharmaceutical wastewater.A pilot-scale test was conducted with a two-phase anaerobic digestion (TPAD) system and a subsequential membrane bioreactor (MBR) treating chemical synthesis-based pharmaceutical wastewater. The TPAD system comprised a continuous stirred tank reactor (CSTR) and an upflow anaerobic sludge blanket-anaerobic filter (UASBAF), working as the acidogenic and methanogenic phases, respectively. The wastewater was high in COD, varying daily between 5789 and 58,792 mg L(-1), with a wide range of pH from 4.3 to 7.2. The wastewater was pumped at a fixed flow rate of 1m(3)h(-1) through the CSTR, the UASBAF and the MBR in series, resulting in respective HRTs of 12, 55 and 5h. Almost all the COD was removed by the TPAD-MBR system, leaving a COD of around 40 mg L(-1) in the MBR effluent. The pH of the MBR effluent was found in a narrow range of 6.8-7.6, indicating that the MBR effluent can be directly discharged into natural waters. A model, built on the back propagation neural network (BPNN) theory and linear regression techniques, was developed for the simulation of TPAD-MBR system performance in the biodegradation of chemical synthesis-based pharmaceutical wastewater. The model well fitted the laboratory data, and was able to simulate the removal of COD.

Aromatizing cyclohexa-1,5-diene-1-carbonyl-coenzyme A oxidase. Characterization and its role in anaerobic aromatic metabolism.Benzoyl-CoA reductases (BCRs) are key enzymes of anaerobic aromatic metabolism in facultatively anaerobic bacteria. The highly oxygen-sensitive enzymes catalyze the ATP-dependent reductive de-aromatization of the substrate, yielding cyclohexa-1,5-diene-1-carbonyl-CoA (1,5-dienoyl-CoA). In extracts from anaerobically grown denitrifying Thauera aromatica, we detected a benzoate-induced, benzoyl-CoA-forming, 1,5-dienoyl-CoA:acceptor oxidoreductase activity. This activity co-purified with BCR but could be partially separated from it by hydroxyapatite chromatography. After activity staining on native gels, a monomeric protein with a subunit molecular weight of M(r) 76,000 was identified. Mass spectrometric analysis of tryptic digests identified peptides from NADH oxidases/2,4-dienoyl-CoA reductases/"old yellow" enzymes. The UV-visible spectrum of the enriched enzyme suggested the presence of flavin and Fe/S-cofactors, and it was bleached upon the addition of 1,5-dienoyl-CoA. The enzyme had a high affinity for dioxygen as electron acceptor (K(m) = 10 microm) and therefore is referred to as 1,5-dienoyl-CoA oxidase (DCO). The likely product formed from dioxygen reduction was H(2)O. DCO was highly specific for 1,5-dienoyl-CoA (K(m) = 27 microm). The initial rate of DCO followed a Nernst curve with half-maximal activity at +10 mV. We propose that DCO provides protection for the extremely oxygen-sensitive BCR enzyme when the bacterium degrades aromatic compounds at the edge of steep oxygen gradients. The redox-dependent switch in DCO guarantees that DCO is only active during oxidative stress and circumvents futile de-aromatization/re-aromatization reactions catalyzed by BCR and DCO.

Evaluation of a new fixed-bed digester design utilizing large media for flush dairy manure treatment.A new anaerobic digester design for the treatment of diluted (<2% solids) flush dairy manure was evaluated. The new design was developed as an economic alternative for enhancing the performance of anaerobic lagoon systems in cold weather areas. The digester employed used automobile tires as fixed-bed media to improve bacterial retention. The digester was heated by steam injection and built underground to enhance insulation. The tires were sorted in a unique pattern for improving mixing and uniform temperature distribution. The system was tested on a pilot-scale. The treatment mechanism was explored by mathematical modeling. The observed treatment efficiency of the new design was comparable to that of conventional digesters operating at higher total solids concentrations (>4%). With a hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 17 days, the measured removal rates were 30-50% and 40-60% of TVS and COD, respectively. The new digester maintained longer solids retention time (SRT) as estimated using the model, supported by the observed thick biofilm formation and resistance to hydraulic overload. The model was used to analyze different operation scenarios varying both the organic and hydraulic loads.

Periodontal disease and preterm birth relationship: a review of the literature.Despite medical care improves consistently, the rate of preterm birth has risen in recent years. In Italy the rate of preterm birth between the XXXIII and the XXXVI week is 13.5%, while it amounts to 1.3% for preterm birth between XXIV and the XXXII week. Consequently, the identification of risk factors for preterm birth that might be modified would have far-reaching and long-lasting effects. A significant number of preterm birth may be attributed to infections of the urogenital tract, such as bacterial vaginosis. In the last decade, great interest has been generated to support the hypothesis that sub-clinical infection at sites that are also distant from the genito-urinary tract may be an important cause of preterm labour, probably through the activation of abnormal inflammatory responses within the uterus and intrauterine tissues. There is emerging evidence of a possible relationship between maternal periodontal diseases as a potential risk factor of adverse pregnancy outcomes, like preterm low birth weight even though not all of the actual data support such hypothesis. Further studies are clearly required to clarify the causes and/or relationships linking pathologic oral conditions and adverse pregnancy outcomes. So far, from a clinical standpoint, it would appear that the assessment of the periodontal status of pregnant women during an early pregnancy might be useful in providing an important indicator of risk for future obstetric complications.

Carbohydrate supplementation before operation retains intestinal barrier function and lowers bacterial translocation in a rat model of major abdominal surgery.Overnight fasting of rats augments the susceptibility of the small intestine to ischemia-reperfusion damage. Feeding before surgery may improve injuries to distant organs that were induced by ischemia-reperfusion. The present study tested the hypothesis that one of the food constituents, namely carbohydrates, may be responsible for the protective effect of preoperative feeding on postoperative organ dysfunction.
Male Wistar rats were fed ad libitum for 5 d and had either free access to water or free access to a carbohydrate drink and water. Then they were fasted for 16 h and access remained to either water or a carbohydrate drink and water. Following this, the arteria mesenterica superior was clamped for 60 min followed by 180 min of reperfusion. Subsequently, the intestinal permeability of stripped ileum was determined by measuring the mucosal to serosal flux in Ussing chambers. For assessment of bacterial content, organs were aseptically removed and assessed for bacterial content by culture under anaerobic conditions.
Preoperative supplementation with carbohydrates resulted in a better maintenance of intestinal barrier function when compared with water supplemented animals. Moreover, carbohydrate supplementation resulted in a reduction in the ischemiareperfusion-induced increase in bacterial content of the liver, kidney, and mesenteric lymph nodes.
Preoperative intake of carbohydrates by rats retains both the intestinal barrier function and prevents translocation of bacteria to distant organs.

Mathematical model for microbial fuel cells with anodic biofilms and anaerobic digestion.This study describes the integration of IWA's anaerobic digestion model (ADM1) within a computational model of microbial fuel cells (MFCs). Several populations of methanogenic and electroactive microorganisms coexist suspended in the anolyte and in the biofilm attached to the anode. A number of biological, chemical and electrochemical reactions occur in the bulk liquid, in the biofilm and at the electrode surface, involving glucose, organic acids, H2 and redox mediators. Model output includes the evolution in time of important measurable MFC parameters (current production, consumption of substrates, suspended and attached biomass growth). Two- and three-dimensional model simulations reveal the importance of current and biomass heterogeneous distribution over the planar anode surface. Voltage- and power-current characteristics can be calculated at different moments in time to evaluate the limiting regime in which the MFC operates. Finally, model simulations are compared with experimental results showing that, in a batch MFC, smaller electrical resistance of the circuit leads to selection of electroactive bacteria. Higher coulombic yields are so obtained because electrons from substrate are transferred to anode rather than following the methanogenesis pathway. In addition to higher currents, faster COD consumption rates are so achieved. The potential of this general modelling framework is in the understanding and design of more complex cases of wastewater-fed microbial fuel cells.

Predicting anaerobic biogasification potential of ingestates and digestates of a full-scale biogas plant using chemical and biological parameters.The aim of this work was to develop simple and fast tests to predict anaerobic biogasification potential (ABP) of ingestates and digestates from a biogas plant. Forty-six samples of both ingestates and digestates were collected within an eight-month observation period and were analyzed in terms of biological and chemical parameters, namely, ABP test, oxygen demand in a 20-h respirometric test (OD20), total solids (TS), volatile solids (VS), total organic carbon (TOC), total Kjeldahl nitrogen (TKN), ammonia, cell solubles (CS), acid detergent fibers (ADF), lignin (ADL), cellulose, and hemicellulose. Considering both quantitative (VS and TOC) and qualitative aspects (OD20 and CS) of organic matter (OM), four models (linear regressions; 0.80<R2<0.913; 16%<standard errors<23%) were proposed to predict ABP. The models were chosen according to the needed accuracy of the evaluation in terms of time schedule and the availability of the required laboratory analyses.

Elucidation of nitrate reduction pathways in anaerobic bioreactors using a stable isotope approach.Leachate recirculation allows an increase of moisture content and the enhancement of the anaerobic digestion of wastes in landfill. Since there is no ammonia elimination process in landfill when leachate is recirculated, NH(4) (+) may accumulate. One strategy for NH(4) (+) removal is to treat aerobically the leachate outside the landfill to convert NH(4) (+) into NO(3) (-). When nitrified leachate is recirculated, denitrification should occur in the waste. We have previously shown that wastes have a large capacity to convert nitrate into N(2). Nevertheless, in some cases we observed nitrate reduction without gaseous nitrogen production. Using a stepwise multiple regression models, H(2)S concentration was the unique parameter found to have a negative effect on N(2) production. We then suspected that dissimilatory nitrate reduction to ammonium (DNRA) occurred in the presence of H(2)S. In order to verify this hypothesis, (15)N nitrate injections were performed into microcosms containing different H(2)S concentrations. The ammonium (15)N enrichment was measured using an elemental analyser coupled to an isotope ratio mass spectrometer. In the two microcosms containing the highest H(2)S concentrations, the ammonium was (15)N enriched and at the end of the experiment all the added nitrate was converted into ammonium. For the two microcosms containing the lowest H(2)S concentrations, no (15)N enrichment of ammonium was observed. This isotopic approach has allowed us to demonstrate that, in the presence of significant concentrations of H(2)S, denitrification is replaced by DNRA.

Investigation of nitrification and nitrogen removal from centrate in a submerged attached-growth bioreactor.The purpose of this study was to investigate the nitrification and nitrogen removal from centrate produced in the dewatering process of anaerobically digested sludge, using a single-unit, single-zone submerged attached-growth bioreactor. The nitrogen loading varied from 0.54 to 1.51 kg-N/m3 x d. Stable ammonia oxidation (nitritification) to nitrite was demonstrated. A nitritification efficiency of 98% was achieved, while the denitrification efficiency varied from 84 to 99% (with methanol). The average total nitrogen removal was 85%. Inhibition of nitrite oxidation by a limited penetration of dissolved oxygen into the biofilm and free ammonia resulted in the accumulation of nitrite, while inhibition of ammonia oxidation by free nitrous acid did not occur. The quantity of biomass, in terms of volatile solids, ranged from 10123 to 16034 mg-VS/L of media.

Evaluation of state variable interface between the Activated Sludge Models and Anaerobic Digestion Model no 1.For plant wide modelling of wastewater treatment, it is necessary to develop a suitable state variables interface for integrating state of the art models of ASM and ADM1. ADM1 currently describes such an interface, however, its suitability needs to be experimentally evaluated. In this study, we characterised activated sludge under aerobic and anaerobic conditions to obtain representative state variables for both models. ASM state variables of X(S), X(H) and X(I) (as obtained from aerobic tests) and ADM1 state variables of X(C) and X(I) (as obtained from anaerobic tests) were then correlated to assess the suitability of current interface. Based on the seven datasets of this study and seven datasets from literatures, it was found that in general ASM state variables were well correlated to the state variables of ADM1. The ADM1 state variable of X(C) could be correlated to the sum of state variables of X(S) and X(H), while X(I) in both the models showed direct correspondence. It was also observed that the degradation kinetics of X(C) under anaerobic condition could be better described by individual degradation kinetics of X(S) and X(H). Therefore, to establish a one to one correspondence between ASM and ADM1 state variables and better description of degradation kinetics in ADM1, replacing the composite variable of X(C) by the state variables of X(S) and X(H) is recommended.

Integration of equalisation tanks within control strategies for anaerobic reactors. Validation based on ADM1 simulations.The combination of equalisation tanks and anaerobic digesters represents a typical design scenario within the treatment of industrial wastewaters. In this context, if the hydraulic capacity of the equalisation tanks is effectively handled, significant improvements in the performance of anaerobic digesters can be achieved in terms of process stability and biogas production. This paper presents a rule-based control strategy for anaerobic reactors with the objective of maximising in the long-term the net production of biogas. The control algorithm combines real-time information about the state of the anaerobic digester with on-line measurements about the wastewater volume of the equalisation tank in order to set permanently the appropriate production of biogas. Such a strategy guarantees a continuous influent flow so that emptying and overflowing episodes in the equalisation tank can be prevented. Aiming at a further full-scale implementation, only reliable and cost-effective on-line instrumentation has been considered within the control architecture. The performance of the proposed control approach has been validated for an anaerobic hybrid configuration (AHR) by simulation using the IWA ADM1 model.

Characterization of sludges for predicting anaerobic digester performance.Batch anaerobic digestion tests of primary sludge and waste activated sludge were conducted for a duration of 123 days to determine the ultimate degradability of the sludges. For primary sludges the inert fraction of the particulate COD that was predicted by the wastewater models could be employed to predict their biodegradability under anaerobic conditions. The degradation of waste activated sludge was adequately characterized for the first 60 days of digestion using a model that assumed equivalent biodegradability of particulate COD components under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. However after 60 days of anaerobic digestion it appeared that decay of the endogenous products was occurring. This could be described with a first order decay function with a coefficient of 0.0075 d(-1). For continuous flow digesters operating at SRTs of 30-60 days, the predicted VSS destruction with the modified model was approximately 10% higher than that predicted on the basis of inert endogenous decay products.

A pseudo-stoichiometric dynamic model of anaerobic hydrogen production from molasses.Despite many mathematical models available in the literature for simulation and optimization of anaerobic digestion processes, only few can accurately account for hydrogen production. In the present study, experiments were performed in a continuous stirred tank reactor with a hydraulic retention time close to 6 h. pH was regulated to 5.5 and agitation was maintained at 300 rpm. Molasses were used as substrate with feeding concentrations varying between 5 and 20 g L(-1). Experimental data were used to estimate the pseudo-stoichiometric coefficients with a constrained nonlinear optimization. The obtained pseudo-stoichiometric matrix is made of two reactions, one being associated with hydrogen production and the other one with acetate production. Finally, a dynamic model is derived and is demonstrated to simulate very accurately the dynamic evolution of hydrogen production, but also biomass and intermediate compounds (i.e., individual volatile fatty acids) concentrations while being very close to the stoichiometric balance. Finally, the best hydrogen production was 15.3L(H)(2)d(-1)L(-1) for a concentration of substrate of 20.09 g L(-1) and a liquid feed flow of 5 L d(-1) (i.e., 1.47 mol-H2 mol-glucose(-1)).

Mitigation of global greenhouse gas emissions from waste: conclusions and strategies from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) Fourth Assessment Report. Working Group III (Mitigation).Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from post-consumer waste and wastewater are a small contributor (about 3%) to total global anthropogenic GHG emissions. Emissions for 2004-2005 totalled 1.4 Gt CO2-eq year(-1) relative to total emissions from all sectors of 49 Gt CO2-eq year(-1) [including carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), and F-gases normalized according to their 100-year global warming potentials (GWP)]. The CH4 from landfills and wastewater collectively accounted for about 90% of waste sector emissions, or about 18% of global anthropogenic methane emissions (which were about 14% of the global total in 2004). Wastewater N2O and CO2 from the incineration of waste containing fossil carbon (plastics; synthetic textiles) are minor sources. Due to the wide range of mature technologies that can mitigate GHG emissions from waste and provide public health, environmental protection, and sustainable development co-benefits, existing waste management practices can provide effective mitigation of GHG emissions from this sector. Current mitigation technologies include landfill gas recovery, improved landfill practices, and engineered wastewater management. In addition, significant GHG generation is avoided through controlled composting, state-of-the-art incineration, and expanded sanitation coverage. Reduced waste generation and the exploitation of energy from waste (landfill gas, incineration, anaerobic digester biogas) produce an indirect reduction of GHG emissions through the conservation of raw materials, improved energy and resource efficiency, and fossil fuel avoidance. Flexible strategies and financial incentives can expand waste management options to achieve GHG mitigation goals; local technology decisions are influenced by a variety of factors such as waste quantity and characteristics, cost and financing issues, infrastructure requirements including available land area, collection and transport considerations, and regulatory constraints. Existing studies on mitigation potentials and costs for the waste sector tend to focus on landfill CH4 as the baseline. The commercial recovery of landfill CH4 as a source of renewable energy has been practised at full scale since 1975 and currently exceeds 105 Mt CO2-eq year(-1). Although landfill CH4 emissions from developed countries have been largely stabilized, emissions from developing countries are increasing as more controlled (anaerobic) landfilling practices are implemented; these emissions could be reduced by accelerating the introduction of engineered gas recovery, increasing rates of waste minimization and recycling, and implementing alternative waste management strategies provided they are affordable, effective, and sustainable. Aided by Kyoto mechanisms such as the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) and Joint Implementation (JI), the total global economic mitigation potential for reducing waste sector emissions in 2030 is estimated to be > 1000 Mt CO2-eq (or 70% of estimated emissions) at costs below 100 US$ t(-1) CO2-eq year(-1). An estimated 20-30% of projected emissions for 2030 can be reduced at negative cost and 30-50% at costs < 20 US$ t(-) CO2-eq year(-1). As landfills produce CH4 for several decades, incineration and composting are complementary mitigation measures to landfill gas recovery in the short- to medium-term--at the present time, there are > 130 Mt waste year(-1) incinerated at more than 600 plants. Current uncertainties with respect to emissions and mitigation potentials could be reduced by more consistent national definitions, coordinated international data collection, standardized data analysis, field validation of models, and consistent application of life-cycle assessment tools inclusive of fossil fuel offsets.

Electrochemical determination of anaerobic microbial decay coefficients.The biokinetics of attached and suspended bacteria are an essential component of activated sludge models, anaerobic digestion models and biofilm models. These parameters are often assumed or "confirmed" based on the goodness-of-fit of the bioprocess models. Using a microbial fuel cell with a baffled reactor chamber, the attached- and mixed-growth microbial decay coefficients were evaluated under anaerobic conditions. The capability for real-time voltage recording allows easy and accurate measurement of the anaerobic microbial decay coefficients (b(L), lysis-regrowth approach), which were determined to be 0.11+/-0.01 and 0.15+/-0.01 d(-1) for attached (to anode) and mixed (present in the anode chamber) growth microorganisms, respectively. The corresponding half-saturation constants using glucose as a substrate were 204+/-10 and 123+/-1 mg COD l(-1). Hence, like an oxygen uptake rate-based approach to measure the microbial kinetics under aerobic conditions, the electrochemical recording provides an attractive method to measure anaerobic microbial decay coefficients.

The effect of pharmaceuticals on the kinetics of methanogenesis and acetogenesis.In this study, the widely used anaerobic digestion model (ADM1) was used in order to simulate the inhibition of three pharmaceuticals, propranolol hydrochloride, ofloxacin and diclofenac sodium, on two groups of microorganisms, acetogens and acetoclastic methanogens, the most sensitive microorganisms groups involved in the anaerobic digestion process. The specific maximum consumption rate and saturation constant of acetate and propionate degraders were estimated through fitting the model to experimental data taken from continuous and batch experiments. A modified non-competitive inhibition function was used, and the inhibition constants were estimated using data from Batch experiments conducted at various concentrations of pharmaceuticals using enriched cultures with propionate and acetate degraders. It was found that propranolol hydrochloride was the most inhibitory pharmaceutical to both microorganisms groups.

Anaerobic tapered fluidized bed reactor for starch wastewater treatment and modeling using multilayer perceptron neural network.Anaerobic treatability of synthetic sago wastewater was investigated in a laboratory anaerobic tapered fluidized bed reactor (ATFBR) with a mesoporous granular activated carbon (GAC) as a support material. The experimental protocol was defined to examine the effect of the maximum organic loading rate (OLR), hydraulic retention time (HRT), the efficiency of the reactor and to report on its steady-state performance. The reactor was subjected to a steady-state operation over a range of OLR up to 85.44 kg COD/(m3 x d). The COD removal efficiency was found to be 92% in the reactor while the biogas produced in the digester reached 25.38 m3/(m3 x d) of the reactor. With the increase of OLR from 83.7 kg COD/(m3 x d), the COD removal efficiency decreased. Also an artificial neural network (ANN) model using multilayer perceptron (MLP) has been developed for a system of two input variable and five output dependent variables. For the training of the input-output data, the experimental values obtained have been used. The output parameters predicted have been found to be much closer to the corresponding experimental ones and the model was validated for 30% of the untrained data. The mean square error (MSE) was found to be only 0.0146.

"Candidatus Cloacamonas acidaminovorans": genome sequence reconstruction provides a first glimpse of a new bacterial division.Many microorganisms live in anaerobic environments. Most of these microorganisms have not yet been cultivated. Here, we present, from a metagenomic analysis of an anaerobic digester of a municipal wastewater treatment plant, a reconstruction of the complete genome of a bacterium belonging to the WWE1 candidate division. In silico proteome analysis indicated that this bacterium might derive most of its carbon and energy from the fermentation of amino acids, and hence, it was provisionally classified as "Candidatus Cloacamonas acidaminovorans." "Candidatus Cloacamonas acidaminovorans" is probably a syntrophic bacterium that is present in many anaerobic digesters. This report highlights how environmental sequence data might provide genomic and functional information about a new bacterial clade whose members are involved in anaerobic digestion.

Capacity of human nisin- and pediocin-producing lactic Acid bacteria to reduce intestinal colonization by vancomycin-resistant enterococci.This study demonstrated the capacity of bacteriocin-producing lactic acid bacteria (LAB) to reduce intestinal colonization by vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) in a mouse model. Lactococcus lactis MM19 and Pediococcus acidilactici MM33 are bacteriocin producers isolated from human feces. The bacteriocin secreted by P. acidilactici is identical to pediocin PA-1/AcH, while PCR analysis demonstrated that L. lactis harbors the nisin Z gene. LAB were acid and bile tolerant when assayed under simulated gastrointestinal conditions. A well diffusion assay using supernatants from LAB demonstrated strong activity against a clinical isolate of VRE. A first in vivo study was done using C57BL/6 mice that received daily intragastric doses of L. lactis MM19, P. acidilactici MM33, P. acidilactici MM33A (a pediocin mutant that had lost its ability to produce pediocin), or phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) for 18 days. This study showed that L. lactis and P. acidilactici MM33A increased the concentrations of total LAB and anaerobes while P. acidilactici MM33 decreased the Enterobacteriaceae populations. A second in vivo study was done using VRE-colonized mice that received the same inocula as those in the previous study for 16 days. In L. lactis-fed mice, fecal VRE levels 1.73 and 2.50 log(10) CFU/g lower than those in the PBS group were observed at 1 and 3 days postinfection. In the P. acidilactici MM33-fed mice, no reduction was observed at 1 day postinfection but a reduction of 1.85 log(10) CFU/g was measured at 3 days postinfection. Levels of VRE in both groups of mice treated with bacteriocin-producing LAB were undetectable at 6 days postinfection. No significant difference in mice fed the pediocin-negative strain compared to the control group was observed. This is the first demonstration that human L. lactis and P. acidilactici nisin- and pediocin-producing strains can reduce VRE intestinal colonization.

Microbial influences in inflammatory bowel diseases.The predominantly anaerobic microbiota of the distal ileum and colon contain an extraordinarily complex variety of metabolically active bacteria and fungi that intimately interact with the host's epithelial cells and mucosal immune system. Crohn's disease, ulcerative colitis, and pouchitis are the result of continuous microbial antigenic stimulation of pathogenic immune responses as a consequence of host genetic defects in mucosal barrier function, innate bacterial killing, or immunoregulation. Altered microbial composition and function in inflammatory bowel diseases result in increased immune stimulation, epithelial dysfunction, or enhanced mucosal permeability. Although traditional pathogens probably are not responsible for these disorders, increased virulence of commensal bacterial species, particularly Escherichia coli, enhance their mucosal attachment, invasion, and intracellular persistence, thereby stimulating pathogenic immune responses. Host genetic polymorphisms most likely interact with functional bacterial changes to stimulate aggressive immune responses that lead to chronic tissue injury. Identification of these host and microbial alterations in individual patients should lead to selective targeted interventions that correct underlying abnormalities and induce sustained and predictable therapeutic responses.

Modeling microbial diversity in anaerobic digestion.The aim of this study is to develop a modeling approach able to handle microbial diversity both in normal and abnormal situations. Normal situations are defined as changing input characteristics that do not imply process imbalance while abnormal situations are illustrated by the presence of toxicant into the reactor. In both cases, modeling is performed by adding a stochastic term on top of a well defined and well structured model such as the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No1. Experimental data from a 1 m3 pilot scale anaerobic digester treating wine distillery wastewater are provided to demonstrate the applicability of this approach. Discussion also highlights that monitoring of digesters might receive a renewed consideration in the near future in order to handle explicitly microbial diversity within the control objectives.

Anaerobic degradation kinetics of particulate organic matter in untreated and sonicated sewage sludge: role of the inoculum.Degradation kinetics of particulate matter in anaerobic digestion of secondary sludge, untreated and sonicated, was investigated by carrying out batch tests at different feed/inoculum ratio (F/I) (in the range of 0.1-4.0). Particulate COD degradation data were analysed using the four equations most widely utilized to model the hydrolysis process and the related kinetic parameters were evaluated. The increase of F/I results in a correspondent increase of the process rate up to one order of magnitude in the investigated interval for both untreated and sonicated sludge. The maximum step increase is observed in the range of 0.1-2.0 while for F/I varying from 2.0 to 4.0 only a modest enhancement of the process kinetics is detected. The effect of sonication on kinetics is not appreciable at low F/I, due to the low fraction of fed sludge and to the consequent strong substrate limitation, whereas at high F/I a slight increase is evidenced.

Systemic adaptation to oxidative challenge induced by regular exercise.Exercise is associated with increased ATP need and an enhanced aerobic and/or anaerobic metabolism, which results in an increased formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS). Regular exercise seems to decrease the incidence of a wide range of ROS-associated diseases, including heart disease, type II diabetes, rheumatic arthritis, Alzheimer and Parkinson diseases, and certain cancers. The preventive effect of regular exercise, at least in part, is due to oxidative stress-induced adaptation. The oxidative challenge-related adaptive process of exercise is probably not just dependent upon the generated level of ROS but primarily on the increase in antioxidant and housekeeping enzyme activities, which involves the oxidative damage repair enzymes. Therefore, the effects of exercise resemble the characteristics of hormesis. In addition, it seems that the oxidative challenge-related effects of exercise are systemic. Skeletal muscle, liver, and brain have very different metabolic rates and functions during exercise, but the adaptive response is very similar: increased antioxidant/damage repair enzyme activity, lower oxidative damage, and increased resistance to oxidative stress, due to the changes in redox homeostasis. Hence, it is highly possible that the well-known beneficial effects of exercise are due to the capability of exercise to produce increased levels of ROS. Or in other words, it seems that the vulnerability of the body to oxidative stress and diseases is significantly enhanced in a sedentary compared to a physically active lifestyle.

Modelling of the mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion of olive mill wastewater with olive mill solid waste using anaerobic digestion model No. 1 (ADM1).The anaerobic digestion model No. 1 (ADM1), conceived by the international water association (IWA) task group for mathematical modelling of anaerobic digestion processes is a structured generic model which includes multiples steps describing biochemical and physicochemical processes encountered in the anaerobic degradation of complex organic substrates and a common platform for further model enhancement and validation of dynamic simulations for a variety of anaerobic processes. In this study the ADM1 model was modified and applied to simulate the mesophilic anaerobic co-digestion of olive mill wastewater (OMW) with olive mill solid waste (OMSW). The ADM1 equations were coded and implemented using the simulation software package MATLAB/Simulink. The most sensitive parameters were calibrated and validated using updated experimental data of our previous work. The results indicated that the ADM1 model could simulate with good accuracy: gas flows, methane and carbon-dioxide contents, pH and total volatile fatty acids (TVFA) concentrations of effluents for various feed concentrations digested at different hydraulic retention times (HRTs) and especially at HRTs of 36 and 24 days. Furthermore, effluent alkalinity and ammonium nitrogen were successfully predicted by the model at HRTs of 12 and 24 days for some feed concentrations.

Evaluation of intestinal preconditioning in a porcine model using classic ischemic preconditioning or lung recruitment maneuvers.To test the hypotheses that repeated brief intestinal ischemic insults would elicit an intestinal preconditioning response to a subsequent intestinal I/R injury and that a similar response would be elicited by repeated lung recruitment maneuvers (RMs). Randomized experimental controlled animal study. University hospital animal laboratory. Eighteen anesthetized pigs. Animals were randomized to one of three groups, with six animals in each group. Control group 75-min superior mesenteric artery (SMA) occlusion followed by 60-min reperfusion. Ischemic preconditioning group, three 5-min-long SMA occlusions preceding 75-min SMA occlusion and 60-min reperfusion. Recruitment maneuver (RM) group, three 2-min-long RMs preceding 75-min SMA occlusion and 60-min reperfusion. We measured systemic and mesenteric hemodynamic parameters, jejunal mucosal perfusion, net mesenteric lactate flux, jejunal tissue oxygen tension, and mesenteric oxygenation. Every 15 min, jejunal microdialysate samples were collected and analyzed for glucose, lactate, and glycerol. Jejunal tissue samples were collected postmortem. After occlusion of SMA, regional parameters in all groups indicated abolished perfusion and gradually increasing intraluminal microdialysate lactate and glycerol levels. At reperfusion, regional parameters indicated mesenteric hyperperfusion, whereas microdialysis markers of mucosal anaerobic metabolism and cell injury decreased, although not reaching baseline. Histological examination revealed severe mucosal injury in all groups. There were no significant differences between groups in the observed parameters. No protective preconditioning response could be observed when performing repeated brief intestinal ischemic insults or repeated lung RMs before an intestinal I/R injury.

Kinetics of the biodegradation of green table olive wastewaters by aerobic and anaerobic treatments.The biodegradation of the organic pollutant matter present in green table olive wastewater (GTOW) is studied in batch reactors by an aerobic biodegradation and by an anaerobic digestion. In the aerobic biodegradation, the evolution of the substrate (in terms of chemical and biochemical oxygen demand), biomass, and total polyphenolic compounds present in the wastewater are followed during the process, and a kinetic study is performed using Contois' model, which when applied to the experimental results provides the kinetic parameter of this model, resulting in a modified Contois' equation (q=3.3S/(0.31S(0)X+X), gCOD/gVSS d(-1)). Other kinetic parameters were determined: the cellular yield coefficient (YX/S=5.7x10(-2) gVSS/gCOD) and the kinetic constant of cellular death phase (kd=0.16 d(-1)). Similarly, in the anaerobic digestion, the evolution of the substrate digested and the methane produced are followed, and the kinetic study is conducted using a modified Monod model combined with the Levenspiel model, due to the presence of inhibition effects. This model leads to the determination of the kinetic parameters: kinetic constant when no inhibitory substance is present (kM0=8.4x10(-2) h(-1)), critical substrate concentration of inhibition (TP*=0.34 g/L) and inhibitory parameter (n=2.25).

Kinetic investigations of methane co-fermentation of sewage sludge and organic fraction of municipal solid wastes.In the presented study the co-fermentation, fermentation of sewage sludge (SS) and fermentation of organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) were compared. The goal of experiments was determination of the processes carbon balance and proposal of the simple kinetic model of anaerobic digestion. Three batch experiments with above mentioned feedstocks were conducted in large scale laboratory reactor of working volume of 40 dm(3). The cumulative biogas production for sewage sludge (180.59 dm(3)) was lower than that for co-fermentation (232 dm(3)) or OFMSW (228.34 dm(3)). During fermentation of the OFMSW an accumulation of volatile fatty acids (VFA) caused pH decrease and strongly inhibited gas production. The addition of co-substrate improved buffering capacity of fermentation broth. The suggested mathematical descriptions of carbon division in anaerobic digestion processes gave the satisfying conformity with the experimental values.

Effect of timing of energy and carbohydrate replacement on post-exercise insulin action.The nutritional environment surrounding an exercise bout modulates post-exercise insulin action. The purpose of this study was to determine how timing energy and carbohydrate replacement proximate to an exercise bout influences exercise-enhanced insulin action. To create an appropriate baseline, sensitivity to insulin was reduced in 9 healthy young men (n=6) and women (n=3) by 2 days of energy surplus and detraining. Then, insulin action (glucose uptake per unit plasma insulin) was assessed by stable isotope dilution during a continuous glucose infusion 12 h after a standardized meal under 4 conditions. In 3 conditions, the meal replaced the energy and carbohydrate expended during an exercise bout (62.9+/-2.8 min cycle ergometry at 65% VO2 peak followed by ten 30 s sprints). The meal was given before (Pre), immediately after (ImmPost), or 3 h after exercise (Delay). The 4th condition was a no-exercise control (Control). Data were analyzed using linear mixed-effects models with planned contrasts. Relative to Control, insulin action increased by 22% in Pre (p=0.05), 44% in ImmPost (p<0.01), and 19% in Delay (p=0.09). Non-oxidative disposal was higher, and oxidative disposal was lower in ImmPost relative to Control and Pre (p<0.05). Hepatic glucose production was suppressed by the infusion to a greater extent in Pre and Delay (76.9%+/-8.8% and 81.2%+/-4.7%) compared with ImmPost (64.7%+/-10.0%). A bout of exercise enhances insulin action even when expended energy and carbohydrate are replaced. Further, timing of energy and carbohydrate consumption subtly modulates the effectiveness of exercise to enhance insulin action.

Parameter and process significance in mechanistic modeling of cellulose hydrolysis.A process-based model relevant to landfill and anaerobic digesters was developed, which included a novel approach to biomass transfer between a cellulose-bound biofilm and biomass in the bulk liquid. Model results highlighted the significance of the bacterial colonization of cellulose particles by attachment through contact in solution. Simulations revealed that both enhanced colonization and cellulose degradation are associated with reduced cellulose particle size, increased biomass populations in solution and increased cellulose-binding ability of the biomass. This suggests that transportation of biomass into the system from elsewhere and/or bacterial inoculation of such systems could enhance degradation significantly. A sensitivity analysis of the system parameters revealed the biological rate and yield properties of the hydrolyzing bacteria are most significant with regard to cellulose degradation in the system.

Thermophilic anaerobic digestion in compact systems: investigations by modern microbiological techniques and mathematical simulation.Thermophilic anaerobic digestion in compact systems can be an economical and ecological reasonable decentralised process technique, especially for rural areas. Thermophilic process conditions are important for a sufficient removal of pathogens. The high energy demand, however, can make such systems unfavourable in terms of energy costs. This is the case when low concentrated wastewater is treated or the system is operated at low ambient temperatures. In this paper we present experimental results of a compact thermophilic anaerobic system obtained with fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) analysis and mathematical simulation. The system was operated with faecal sludge for a period of 135 days and with a model substrate consisting of forage and cellulose for a period of 60 days. The change in the microbial community due to the two different substrates treated could be well observed by the FISH analysis. The Anaerobic Digestion Model no. 1 (ADM1) was used to evaluate system performance at different temperature conditions. The model was extended to contribute to decreased methanogenic activity at lower temperatures and was used to calculate energy production. A model was developed to calculate the major parts of energy consumed by the digester itself at different temperature conditions. It was demonstrated by the simulation study that a reduction of the process temperature can lead to higher net energy yield. The simulation study additionally showed that the effect of temperature on the energy yield is higher when a substrate is treated with high protein content.

Comparative transcriptome analysis of responses of Methanothermobacter thermautotrophicus to different environmental stimuli.Methanothermobacter thermautotrophicus strain DeltaH is a model hydrogenotrophic methanogen, for which the complete genome sequence and extensive biochemical information are available. Little is known, however, about how this organism regulates its cellular functions in response to environmental stimuli. In this study, whole-genome oligonucleotide microarrays were constructed for M. thermautotrophicus and used to gain insights into how this organism responds to different environmental stimuli, including hydrogen depletion, shifts in pH and temperature and the occurrence of toxics (hydrogen peroxide and ammonia). Our analysis confirmed that methanogenesis genes (including mtd, mer, frh and mcr) were upregulated under hydrogen-limited conditions, while some of them were affected by other environmental stimuli. Concerning stress responses of this organism, several unique features were revealed. First, there was no universal stress response in this organism. Second, genes for alternative redox enzymes, such as rubrerythrin, were upregulated under the oxidative stress, but those for typical antioxidant enzymes were not. Third, genes relevant to the modification of cell surface structures were differentially expressed under stress conditions. Finally, energy-requiring CO(2) assimilation systems were downregulated under stress conditions. These findings suggest that M. thermautotrophicus has complex transcriptional regulation mechanisms that facilitate it to survive in unstable ecosystems such as an anaerobic digester.

Hypoxia and gastrointestinal disease.The gastrointestinal mucosa is a richly perfused vascular bed directly juxtaposed with the anaerobic and nonsterile lumen of the gut. As such, intestinal epithelial cells, which line the mucosa, experience a uniquely steep physiologic oxygen gradient in comparison with other cells of the body. Inflammation associated with a loss of epithelial barrier function and unregulated exposure of the mucosal immune system to luminal antigens leads to inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), a relatively common disorder with severe morbidity and a limited therapeutic repertoire. During IBD, increased tissue metabolism and vasculitis renders the chronically inflamed mucosa and particularly the epithelium hypoxic, giving rise to the activation of the hypoxia-responsive transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF). Recent studies utilizing conditional intestinal epithelial hif1a-null mice have revealed a protective role for epithelial HIF-1alpha in murine models of IBD. Such protection occurs, at least in part, through HIF-dependent induction of barrier-protective genes in the epithelium. More recently, studies employing pharmacologic activation of HIF via inhibition of HIF prolyl hydroxylases revealed a profoundly protective effect of these agents in murine models of colitis. In this paper, we review this pathway in detail and examine the therapeutic potential for targeting HIF hydroxylases in intestinal mucosal inflammatory disease.

Algebraic solution of the mass balanced ADM1 to predict the steady state and to optimise the design of the anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge.This paper proposes an algebraic solution of the mass and charge balanced ADM1 model to predict the steady state performance of an anaerobic digester for sewage sludge treatment. The algebraic solution consists of three sequential stages: a kinetic stage that considers only the slowest transformations of the model, a stoichiometric stage based on the complete mass fluxes of the biological process and a physicochemical stage from which some digester outputs are calculated. The predictive capacity and the applicability of this model solution are corroborated by its comparison to the differential equation's model solution and the experimental data of a real case study. The algebraic solution is used to explore the digester response under different operational conditions. An example of application is used to verify the potential of the algebraic solution to be used, together with optimisation algorithms, for optimising the design of the digester and the operational conditions for specified performance criteria, such as effluent quality.

Elemental balance based methodology to establish reaction stoichiometry in environmental modeling.Kinetic models in activated sludge, anaerobic digestion and other environmental modeling fields rely on the proper formulation of stoichiometric coefficients. Elemental balancing provides a simple and rigorous way to establish the stoichiometric coefficients of reactions represented in the Gujer matrix. The deduction of these coefficients is frequently trivial, from basic mass balancing considerations. In more complex cases, such as the Anammox growth reaction, rigorous elemental balancing is required to establish the proper formulation. This paper demonstrates the methodology based on a simple aerobic heterotrophic growth reaction where stoichiometry coefficients (such as the (1-Y(H))/Y(H) term for oxygen) are well known. In the second step the methodology is applied for the Anammox growth reaction. The fraction of N(2) gas in current models originates from the NH(4)+ and the NO(2)- electron donor/acceptor pair in equal proportion. This paper demonstrates that this stoichiometry is a simplification leading to elemental balance errors. The proper stoichiometric coefficients are derived.

Mesophilic digestion kinetics of manure slurry.Anaerobic digestion kinetics study of cow manure was performed at 35 degrees C in bench-scale gas-lift digesters (3.78 l working volume) at eight different volatile solids (VS) loading rates in the range of 1.11-5.87 g l-1 day-1. The digesters produced methane at the rates of 0.44-1.18 l l-1 day-1, and the methane content of the biogas was found to increase with longer hydraulic retention time (HRT). Based on the experimental observations, the ultimate methane yield and the specific methane productivity were estimated to be 0.42 l CH4 (g VS loaded)-1 and 0.45 l CH4 (g VS consumed)-1, respectively. Total and dissolved chemical oxygen demand (COD) consumptions were calculated to be 59-17% and 78-43% at 24.4-4.6 days HRTs, respectively. Maximum concentration of volatile fatty acids in the effluent was observed as 0.7 g l-1 at 4.6 days HRT, while it was below detection limit at HRTs longer than 11 days. The observed methane production rate did not compare well with the predictions of Chen and Hashimoto's [1] and Hill's [2] models using their recommended kinetic parameters. However, under the studied experimental conditions, the predictions of Chen and Hashimoto's [1] model compared better to the observed data than that of Hill's [2] model. The nonlinear regression analysis of the experimental data was performed using a derived methane production rate model, for a completely mixed anaerobic digester, involving Contois kinetics [3] with endogenous decay. The best fit values for the maximum specific growth rate (micro m) and dimensionless kinetic parameter (K) were estimated as 0.43 day-1 and 0.89, respectively. The experimental data were found to be within 95% confidence interval of the prediction of the derived methane production rate model with the sum of residual squared error as 0.02.

Effect of shear on performance and microbial ecology of continuously stirred anaerobic digesters treating animal manure.We determined the effect of different mixing intensities on the performance, methanogenic population dynamics, and juxtaposition of syntrophic microbes in anaerobic digesters treating cow manure from a dairy farm. Computer automated radioactive particle tracking in conjunction with computational fluid dynamics was performed to quantify the shear levels locally. Four continuously stirred anaerobic digesters were operated at different mixing intensities of 1,500, 500, 250, and 50 revolutions per min (RPM) over a 260-day period at a temperature of 34 +/- 1 degrees C. Animal manure at a volatile solids (VS) concentration of 50 g/L was fed into the digesters daily at five different organic loading rates between 0.6 and 3.5 g VS/L day. The different mixing intensities had no effect on the biogas production rates and yields at steady-state conditions. A methane yield of 0.241 +/- 0.007 L CH(4)/g VS fed was obtained by pooling the data of all four digesters during steady-state periods. However, digester performance was affected negatively by mixing intensity during startup of the digesters, with lower biogas production rates and higher volatile fatty acids concentrations observed for the 1,500-RPM digester. Despite similar methane production yields and rates, the acetoclastic methanogenic populations were different for the high- and low-intensity mixed digesters with Methanosarcina spp. and Methanosaeta concilii as the predominant methanogens, respectively. For all four digesters, epifluorescence microscopy revealed decreasing microbial floc sizes beginning at week 4 and continuing through week 26 after which no microbial flocs remained. This decrease in size, and subsequent loss of microbial flocs did not, however, produce any long-term upsets in digester performance.

Enhanced oxygen availability improves liver-specific functions of the AMC bioartificial liver.Long-term culturing of primary porcine hepatocytes (PPH) inside the Academic Medical Center (AMC)-bioartificial liver is characterized by increased anaerobic glycolysis. Recommendations to increase oxygen availability were proposed in a previous numerical study and were experimentally evaluated in this study. Original bioreactors as well as new configuration bioreactors with 2.2-fold thinner nonwoven matrix and 2-fold more capillaries were loaded with PPHs and oxygenated with different gas oxygen pressures resulting in medium pO(2) (pO(2-med)) of either 135-150 mm Hg or 235-250 mm Hg. After 6 days culturing, new configuration bioreactors with pO(2-med )of 250 mm Hg showed significantly reduced anaerobic glycolysis, 60% higher liver-specific functions, and increased transcript levels of five liver-specific genes compared to the standard bioreactor cultures. Changed bioreactor configuration and increasing pO(2-med) contributed equally to these improvements. Histological examination demonstrated small differences in cell organization. In conclusion, higher metabolic stability and liver-specific functionality was achieved by enhanced oxygen availability based on a prior modeling concept.

The effects of polydextrose and xylitol on microbial community and activity in a 4-stage colon simulator.This study focused on the effects of candidate prebiotics polydextrose (PDX) and xylitol on the microbial community and its metabolic activity in a colon simulator. A semicontinuous, anaerobic culture system was used with 4 vessels mimicking the conditions in the human large intestine from proximal to distal colon. Bacterial inocula for the independent simulations were obtained from fecal samples of different donors. Synthetic medium, mimicking the contents of the small intestine, containing either 2% of the prebiotic candidate or no added carbohydrates as a control, was fed to the system. After 48 h of simulation samples were collected and analyzed. A sustained degradation of polydextrose throughout the colon model and a more rapid degradation of xylitol were observed. The fermentation of both compounds was characterized by a significantly increased production of short-chain fatty acids (SCFA). Polydextrose increased the concentrations of all SCFA, especially acetate and propionate, and xylitol especially the concentration of butyrate. Branched-chain fatty acids (BCFA) levels decreased significantly as a result of polydextrose and xylitol supplementation, whereas biogenic amine levels remained mostly unchanged. Thus, a beneficial shift in the metabolic patterns of the colon microbes was measured with both of the tested products. These in vitro studies provide evidence to the prebiotic characteristics of polydextrose; also, further beneficial properties of xylitol were demonstrated in the colon model.

Hemodynamic, biochemical, and morphological characteristics during preservation of normal porcine livers by hypothermic machine perfusion.In renal transplantation, hypothermic machine perfusion optimizes preservation of marginal grafts, assesses their quality prior to transplantation, improves outcome, and may contribute to an increased number of transplantations. Recently, hypothermic machine perfusion has become increasingly popular given the organ shortage and the "obligatory" utilization of marginal organs. Increasing mortality on the liver transplantation waiting list makes it urgent to develop machine perfusion systems for livers, trying to better preserve marginal livers and perhaps to recover currently discarded livers are for clinical transplantation without an increased risk of graft nonfunction. However, data on machine perfusion of livers and perfusion parameters capable of predicting viability are scarce. The aim of this study was to determine the baseline hemodynamic and metabolic profiles and morphology of livers during hypothermic machine perfusion in a porcine model. We used protocol similar to hypothermic machine perfusion of kidneys. Hemodynamic analysis revealed higher vascular resistance in the hepatic artery versus the portal vein. The arterial resistance gradually decreased during perfusion (similar to kidneys), suggesting progressive relaxation of the arterial vasculature, and perhaps better penetration of the microcirculation by the perfusion solution. During hypothermic machine perfusion, transaminases were gradually (but modestly) released, and livers displayed unequivocal signs of aerobic and anaerobic metabolism. After 24 hours, livers appeared morphologically well preserved. In conclusion, this study showed that hypothermic machine perfusion was feasible. During hypothermic machine perfusion, was easily assessed hemodynamic, biochemical, and morphological parameters.

Reductive dechlorination of methoxychlor and DDT by human intestinal bacterium Eubacterium limosum under anaerobic conditions.Methoxychlor [1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-methoxyphenyl)ethane], a substitute for 1,1,1-trichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDT), is a compound of environmental concern because of potential long-term health risks related to its endocrine-disrupting and carcinogenic potency. In order to determine the metabolic fate of methoxychlor and DDT in the human intestinal gut, Eubacterium limosum (ATCC 8486), a strict anaerobe isolated from the human intestine that is capable of O-demethylation toward O-methylated isoflavones, was used as a model intestinal microbial organism. Under anaerobic incubation conditions, E. limosum completely transformed methoxychlor and DDT in 16 days. Based on gas chromatography-mass chromatography analyses, the metabolites produced from methoxychlor and DDT by E. limosum were confirmed to be 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(p-methoxyphenyl)ethane (methoxydichlor) and 1,1-dichloro-2,2-bis(p-chlorophenyl)ethane (DDD), respectively. This study suggests that E. limosum in the human intestinal gut might be a participant in the reductive dechlorination of methoxychlor to the more antiandrogenic active methoxydichlor.

Energy considerations for a SSF-based softwood ethanol plant.Ethanol can be produced from softwood by steam pretreatment followed by simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF). However, the final ethanol concentration in the SSF step is usually rather low (around 4 wt%) and as a result the energy demand in the downstream processing will be high. In an effort to reduce the energy consumption various alternatives for the downstream processing part of the process were evaluated from a technical-economic standpoint. With experimental data as a basis, the whole process was modelled using the commercial flowsheeting program Aspen Plus. The results were used in the subsequent economic evaluation, which was performed using Icarus process evaluator. A base case configuration, consisting of three thermally coupled distillation columns and multiple-effect evaporation was established. For a feed containing 3.5% ethanol (w/w) to the distillation step, the overall process demand for steam was estimated to be 19.0 MJ/L ethanol and the ethanol production cost 4.14 SEK/L (0.591 USD/L). Different alternatives were considered, such as integration of a stripper with the evaporation step, increasing the number of evaporation effects and the application of mechanical vapour recompression to the evaporation step. Replacement of evaporation with anaerobic digestion was also considered. Among these alternatives, evaporation using mechanical vapour recompression and the anaerobic digester alternative both resulted in significantly lower energy demand than the base case, 10.2 and 9.8 MJ/L, respectively, and productions costs of 3.82 (0.546 USD/L) and 3.84 SEK/L (0.549 USD/L).

In vitro biofilm model for studying tongue flora and malodour.To develop a perfusion biofilm system to model tongue biofilm microflora and their physiological response to sulfur-containing substrates (S-substrates) in terms of volatile sulfide compound (VSC) production.
Tongue-scrape inocula were used to establish in vitro perfusion biofilms which were examined in terms of ecological composition using culture-dependent and independent (PCR-DGGE) approaches. VSC-specific activity of cells was measured by a cell suspension assay, using a portable industrial sulfide monitor which was also used to monitor VSC production from biofilms in situ. Quasi steady states were achieved by 48 h and continued to 96 h. The mean (+/-SEM) growth rate for 72-h biofilms (n=4) was micro=0.014 h(-1) (+/-0.005 h(-1)). Comparison of biofilms, perfusate and original inoculum showed their ecological composition to be similar (Pearson coefficient>0.64). Perfusate and biofilm cells derived from the same condition (co-sampled) were equivalent with regard to VSC-specific activities which were up-regulated in the presence of S-substrates.
The model maintained a stable tongue microcosm suitable for studying VSC production; biofilm growth in the presence of S-substrates up-regulated VSC activity.
The method is apt for studying ecological and physiological aspects of oral biofilms and could be useful for screening inhibitory agents.

Anaerobic digestion model No. 1-based distributed parameter model of an anaerobic reactor: II. Model validation.In this study, an ADM1-based distributed parameter model was validated using experimental results obtained in a laboratory-scale 10 L UASB reactor. Sensitivity analysis of the model parameters was used to select four parameters for estimation by a numerical procedure while other parameters were accepted from ADM1 benchmark simulations. The parameter estimation procedure used measurements of liquid phase components obtained at different sampling points in the reactor and under different operating conditions. Model verification used real time fluorescence-based measurements of chemical oxygen demand and volatile fatty acids at four sampling locations in the reactor. Overall, the distributed parameter model was able to describe the distribution of liquid phase components in the reactor and adequately simulated the effect of external recirculation on degradation efficiency. The model can be used in the design, analysis and optimization of UASB reactors.

Anaerobic digestion model no. 1-based distributed parameter model of an anaerobic reactor: I. Model development.This work presents a distributed parameter model of the anaerobic digestion process. The model is based on the Anaerobic digestion model no. 1 (ADM1) and was developed to simulate anaerobic digestion process in high-rate reactors with significant axial dispersion, such as in upflow anaerobic sludge bed (UASB) reactors. The model, which was named ADM1d, combines ADM1's kinetics of biomass growth and substrate transformation with axial dispersion material balances. ADM1d uses a hyperbolic tangent function to describe biomass distribution within a one compartment model. A comparison of this approach with a two-compartment, sludge bed - liquid above the bed, model showed similar simulation results while the one-compartment model had less equations. A comparison of orthogonal collocation and finite difference algorithms for numerical solution of ADM1d showed better stability of the finite difference algorithm.

Use of modelling to evaluate best control practice for winery-type wastewaters.Winery wastewaters are high strength, and readily biodegradable, making them perfect for application of anaerobic digestion. However, inherent buffering against pH changes also requires some process knowledge and monitoring. They are therefore an important target for anaerobic process control. This has had limited application, but is emerging as an important research and development area. In this paper, we evaluate the use of model-based control analysis of a heavily loaded vinasse-fed reactor. Two controllers--both proportional-integral (PI)--on total volatile fatty acids (VFA) (< 500 mg/L), alkalinity (VFA/Total Alkalinity < 0.2) were evaluated in a fitted model, against the actual control mechanism used, which was model-based adaptive control. The two controllers were both less aggressive than the adaptive controller, producing less gas overall, but also using more caustic for pH control. The controllers were also evaluated against their ability to deal with noise, as PI controllers are relatively poor for controlling non-linear processes. The VFA controller was very poor with noise added, proving difficult to tune, and oscillatory. The alkalinity controller was effective with moderate detuning. This emphasizes the need to use effective controller inputs, when applying simple, linear controllers. Overall, use of a model was an effective method to evaluate the different controllers in a competitive way, in a standardized environment.

Anaerobic co-digestion of winery wastewater.The operational performance of anaerobic batch reactors treating winery wastewater (WW) combined with waste activated sludge (WAS) in different proportions was investigated under mesophilic conditions. In these experiments it was shown that for anaerobic digestion of WW alone, methane production rate was lower than the rates achieved when WW and WAS were treated together. When WW was mixed with WAS at a concentration of 50% WW resulted in the highest methane production rates. A simplified anaerobic model was used to determine the main kinetic parameters; maximum COD reduction rate (q(DA)) and maximum methane generation rate (k(max)). The maximum values of q(DA) and k(max) were 16.50 kgCOD COD(-1) d(-1) and 14.34 kgCOD kgCOD(-1) d(-1), respectively.

Characteristics of granular sludge developed in an upflow anaerobic sludge fixed-film bioreactor treating palm oil mill effluent.In the present study, characteristics of the granular sludge (including physical characteristics under stable conditions and process shocks arising from suspended solid overload, soluble organic overload, and high temperature; biological activity; and sludge kinetic evaluation in a batch experiment) developed in an upflow anaerobic sludge blanket fixed-film reactor for palm oil mill effluent (POME) treatment was investigated. The main aim of this work was to provide suitable understanding of POME anaerobic digestion using such a granular sludge reactor, particularly with respect to granule structure at various operating conditions. The morphological changes in granular sludge resulting from various operational conditions was studied using scanning electron microscopy and transmission electron microscopy images. It was shown that the developed granules consisted of densely packed rod- (Methanosaeta-like microorganism; predominant) and cocci- (Methanosarsina) shaped microorganisms. Methanosaeta aggregates functioned as nucleation centers that initiated granule development of POME-degrading granules. Under the suspended solid overload condition, most of the granules were covered with a thin layer of fiberlike suspended solids, so that the granule color changed to brown and the sludge volume index also increased to 24.5 from 12 to 15 mL/g, which caused a large amount of sludge washout. Some of the granules were disintegrated because of an acidified environment, which originated from acidogenesis of high influent organic load (29 g chemical oxygen demand [COD]/L d). At 60 degrees C, the rate of biomass washout increased, as a result of disintegration of the outer layer of the granules. In the biological activity test, approximately 95% COD removal was achieved within 72 hours, with an initial COD removal rate of 3.5 g COD/L d. During POME digestion, 275 mg calcium carbonate/L bicarbonate alkalinity was produced per 1000 mg COD(removed)/ L. A consecutive reaction kinetic model was used to simulate the data obtained from the sludge activity in the batch experiment. The mathematical model gave a good fit with the experimental results (R2 > 0.93). The slowest step was modeled to be the acidification step, with a rate constant between 0.015 and 0.083 hours(-1), while the rate constant for the methanogenic step was obtained to be between 0.218 and 0.361 hours(-1).

Modified ADM1 structure for modelling municipal primary sludge hydrolysis.This study elaborates the rate-limiting steps of particle disintegration/hydrolysis of primary sludge using methane production rate (MPR) curves from multiple batch experiments. Anaerobic batch degradation of fresh primary sludge showed a complex MPR curve marked with two well-defined temporal peaks. The first immediate peak was associated with the degradation of relatively readily hydrolysable substrates, while the second delayed peak was associated with the degradation of large-sized particles. For simulating the second delayed peak, it was necessary to consider a more elaborate particle disintegration/hydrolysis model. Based on the anaerobic respirograms of 17 runs in four datasets and using a substrate characterisation approach similar to activated sludge models (ASMs), the primary sludge was classified into three biodegradable fractions having different kinetics. These are (1) a hydrolysable substrate (X(Settle-I)) showing a degradation typical to slowly biodegradable compounds, (2) a substrate fraction (X(Settle-II)) having a degradation similar to lysis of biomass fraction and (3) a substrate requiring disintegration before hydrolysis (X(Settle-III)) representing the large-sized particles in primary sludge. Based on these results, modifications in the model structure of anaerobic digestion model no. 1 (ADM1) are proposed to improve the modelling of primary sludge solid degradation in anaerobic digesters.

Encapsulated Bifidobacteria reduced bacterial translocation in rats following hemorrhagic shock and resuscitation.The aim of the present study was to determine the effects of peroral encapsulated Bifidobacteria on intestinal microflora, bacterial translocation (BT), plasma endotoxin, and ileal villi injury in a rat model of hemorrhagic shock.
Sprague-Dawley rats were fed daily with three different diet supplements: phosphate buffered saline, Bifidobacteria (10(9) colon-forming units/day), or microencapsulated Bifidobacteria (10(9) colony-forming units/day). After 7 d of treatment, rats were anesthetized for hemorrhagic or sham shock. Then a laparotomy was performed to determine microbiological analysis of cecal content, BT to mesenteric lymph nodes, plasma endotoxin, and terminal ileal villous damage.
In the hemorrhagic-shock model, rats pretreated with Bifidobacteria showed decreases in total aerobes in cecum, magnitude of total aerobes to BT, levels of plasma endotoxin, and percentage of ileal villous damage when compared with rats treated with phosphate buffered saline. Encapsulated Bifidobacteria induced greater decreases than intact Bifidobacteria in this model, except for no difference in percentage of ileal villous damage between the two groups. In addition, the incidence of BT was decreased in hemorrhagic rats pretreated with Bifidobacteria compared with control. However, the magnitude of total anaerobes and Bifidobacteria BT were similar among hemorrhagic-shocked rats receiving three different supplements.
Bifidobacteria can be useful in preventing BT in hemorrhagic-shocked rats, and encapsulated Bifidobacteria can augment this effect further. Peroral administration of Bifidobacteria may be a favorable strategy to prevent sepsis and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome in hemorrhagic shock.

Impact of orally administered microcapsules on gastrointestinal microbial flora: in-vitro investigation using computer controlled dynamic human gastrointestinal model.Oral administration of artificial cell microcapsules has been proposed for various therapy procedures using biologically active materials. Recently we have designed novel APPPA microcapsules using alginate, poly-L-lysine, pectin, poly-L-lysine and alginate that have shown superior oral delivery features. This article investigates, in-vitro using a computer controlled dynamic gastrointestinal (GI) model, effects of APPPA microcapsules on health of gastrointestinal (GI) microbial flora. The impact of APPPA microcapsules on GI bacterial population, total anaerobes, total aerobes, Escherichia coli, Lactobacillus sp. and Staphylococcus sp. has been analyzed. In addition, the effects of microcapsules on GI microbial extracellular enzymatic activities have been investigated. Result shows the altered activities of microbial flora and enzymes due to the use of APPPA microcapsule. The most disparity is observed in the colon ascendans microbial activities. This study would have significant impact on future microcapsule design. However, further in-vivo studies are required.

Respiration of Escherichia coli in the mouse intestine.Mammals are aerobes that harbor an intestinal ecosystem dominated by large numbers of anaerobic microorganisms. However, the role of oxygen in the intestinal ecosystem is largely unexplored. We used systematic mutational analysis to determine the role of respiratory metabolism in the streptomycin-treated mouse model of intestinal colonization. Here we provide evidence that aerobic respiration is required for commensal and pathogenic Escherichia coli to colonize mice. Our results showed that mutants lacking ATP synthase, which is required for all respiratory energy-conserving metabolism, were eliminated by competition with respiratory-competent wild-type strains. Mutants lacking the high-affinity cytochrome bd oxidase, which is used when oxygen tensions are low, also failed to colonize. However, the low-affinity cytochrome bo(3) oxidase, which is used when oxygen tension is high, was found not to be necessary for colonization. Mutants lacking either nitrate reductase or fumarate reductase also had major colonization defects. The results showed that the entire E. coli population was dependent on both microaerobic and anaerobic respiration, consistent with the hypothesis that the E. coli niche is alternately microaerobic and anaerobic, rather than static. The results indicate that success of the facultative anaerobes in the intestine depends on their respiratory flexibility. Despite competition for relatively scarce carbon sources, the energy efficiency provided by respiration may contribute to the widespread distribution (i.e., success) of E. coli strains as commensal inhabitants of the mammalian intestine.

Determination of the solid-water distribution coefficient (Kd) for pharmaceuticals, estrogens and musk fragrances in digested sludge.This work determined the solid-water distribution coefficient (K(d)) and the organic carbon normalized distribution coefficient (K(oc)) of several pharmaceuticals (carbamazepine, ibuprofen, naproxen, diclofenac, iopromide, sulfamethoxazole and roxithromycin), three estrogens (estrone, 17beta-estradiol and 17alpha-ethinylestradiol) and two musk fragrances (HHCB and AHTN) in digested sludge. These sorption coefficients can be used to evaluate the fate of these substances during sludge treatment, thus avoiding the expensive and time-consuming analysis in the sludge phase. For determining the K(d) and K(oc) values of the target compounds in digested sludge, their concentrations were measured in the aqueous and solid phase of the effluent of an anaerobic digestion pilot plant run at several operational conditions. The results obtained were compared with the values modelled by using simple K(ow) approaches. The resulting log K(d) values ranged between 3.5 and 4.4 for the two musk fragrances (log K(oc) of 4.5-6.0), between 2.1 and 2.9 for estrogens (log K(oc) of 2.9-4.2) and between 0.8 and 1.9 for the remaining pharmaceuticals (log K(oc) of 1.8-3.5). These values are in the same range as those reported in the literature for primary and secondary sludge and no significant influence of the anaerobic digestion operational conditions was observed. For most compounds, the modelled K(oc) were close or within the lower range of the experimentally determined K(oc). Major deviations of the modelled K(oc) values were found for iopromide, sulfamethoxazole and roxithromycin, which were 1-3 orders of magnitude lower than the measured values.

Carbohydrate storage in anaerobic sequencing batch reactors.This study demonstrates the accumulation and degradation of trehalose as a storage compound in a glucose-fed anaerobic sequencing batch reactor (ASBR). One hour after substrate addition, only 40% of the added organic matter (as chemical oxygen demand, COD) was accounted for by the cumulative methane production and soluble COD remaining in the reactor. All influent COD was accounted for by methane and biomass production by the end of the 24-h ASBR cycle. These dynamics can be explained by the production of an intracellular storage product. Total carbohydrate analysis showed that 26% of the glucose added to the reactor transiently accumulated within the biomass. Based on (13)C-nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) analysis, trehalose (alpha-D-glucopyranosyl-(D-glucopyranoside)) was identified as the main carbohydrate produced. Mathematical modeling was performed and the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) was modified to include microbial storage. The modified model adequately described the ASBR dynamics during a 24-h cycle.

Modelling the energy balance of an anaerobic digester fed with cattle manure and renewable energy crops.Knowledge of the net energy production of anaerobic fermenters is important for reliable modelling of the efficiency of anaerobic digestion processes. By using the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) the simulation of biogas production and composition is possible. This paper shows the application and modification of ADM1 to simulate energy production of the digestion of cattle manure and renewable energy crops. The paper additionally presents an energy balance model, which enables the dynamic calculation of the net energy production. The model was applied to a pilot-scale biogas reactor. It was found in a simulation study that a continuous feeding and splitting of the reactor feed into smaller heaps do not generally have a positive effect on the net energy yield. The simulation study showed that the ratio of co-substrate to liquid manure in the inflow determines the net energy production when the inflow load is split into smaller heaps. Mathematical equations are presented to calculate the increase of biogas and methane yield for the digestion of liquid manure and lipids for different feeding intervals. Calculations of different kinds of energy losses for the pilot-scale digester showed high dynamic variations, demonstrating the significance of using a dynamic energy balance model.

On-line near infrared monitoring of glycerol-boosted anaerobic digestion processes: evaluation of process analytical technologies.A study of NIR as a tool for process monitoring of thermophilic anaerobic digestion boosted by glycerol has been carried out, aiming at developing simple and robust Process Analytical Technology modalities for on-line surveillance in full scale biogas plants. Three 5 L laboratory fermenters equipped with on-line NIR sensor and special sampling stations were used as a basis for chemometric multivariate calibration. NIR characterisation using Transflexive Embedded Near Infra-Red Sensor (TENIRS) equipment integrated into an external recurrent loop on the fermentation reactors, allows for representative sampling, of the highly heterogeneous fermentation bio slurries. Glycerol is an important by-product from the increasing European bio-diesel production. Glycerol addition can boost biogas yields, if not exceeding a limiting 5-7 g L(-1) concentration inside the fermenter-further increase can cause strong imbalance in the anaerobic digestion process. A secondary objective was to evaluate the effect of addition of glycerol, in a spiking experiment which introduced increasing organic overloading as monitored by volatile fatty acids (VFA) levels. High correlation between on-line NIR determinations of glycerol and VFA contents has been documented. Chemometric regression models (PLS) between glycerol and NIR spectra needed no outlier removals and only one PLS-component was required. Test set validation resulted in excellent measures of prediction performance, precision: r(2) = 0.96 and accuracy = 1.04, slope of predicted versus reference fitting. Similar prediction statistics for acetic acid, iso-butanoic acid and total VFA proves that process NIR spectroscopy is able to quantify all pertinent levels of both volatile fatty acids and glycerol.

Ammonium and potassium removal for anaerobically digested wastewater using natural clinoptilolite followed by membrane pretreatment.On the basis of the wastewater characteristic of anaerobically digested wastewater, this work studied the individual and simultaneous adsorption of ammonium and potassium ions by the natural clinoptilolite. Langmuir, Freundlich, Langmuir-Freundlich, and Toth model were employed to fit the experimental isotherm data and the fitting performances of different models were compared. Both the individual and simultaneous adsorption kinetics of ammonium and potassium were studied at various pHs and temperatures. The individual adsorption of ammonium was very fast and potassium uptake was even faster than that of ammonium. The adsorption approached equilibrium within 1h in most cases. Five models, including pseudo-first-order, pseudo-second-order, Vermeulen's model, squared driving force model and Elovich equation were used to fit the individual and simultaneous adsorption kinetics of ammonium and potassium. The validities of the fittings for the ammonium and potassium adsorption kinetics were also evaluated.

Forward osmosis for concentration of anaerobic digester centrate.The nutrient-rich liquid stream produced during the dewatering of digested biomass (i.e., the centrate) is commonly mixed with the influent raw wastewater at wastewater treatment facilities. This increases the nitrogen and phosphorus loading on biological processes, increases operating costs, and in some cases, results in increased nutrient concentrations in the final effluent. Forward osmosis (FO) is a membrane treatment process that was investigated at bench scale to determine its feasibility to concentrate centrate under both batch and continuous operating conditions. The continuous bench-scale system used FO as pretreatment for reverse osmosis (RO). Results demonstrated that high water flux and high nutrient rejection could be achieved. The combined FO/RO process exhibited sustainable flux over an extended time period. A mathematical model was developed in order to determine the specific energy, power, and membrane area requirements for a larger-scale centrate treatment process. Modeling results indicated that to optimize power and membrane area requirements, the system should be operated at approximately 70% water recovery.

Gut microbiota and development of atopic eczema in 3 European birth cohorts.Stimulation of the immune system by gut microbes might prevent allergy development.
The present study examined the hypothesis that sensitization to food allergens and atopic eczema are influenced by the infantile intestinal colonization pattern.
Infants were recruited perinatally in Göteborg (n = 116), London (n = 108), and Rome (n = 100). Commensal bacteria were identified to the genus or species level in rectal (3 days) and quantitative stool cultures (7, 14, and 28 days and 2, 6, and 12 months of age). At 18 months of age, atopic eczema and total and food-specific IgE levels were assessed. These outcomes were modeled in relation to time to colonization with 11 bacterial groups and to ratios of strict anaerobic to facultative anaerobic bacteria and gram-positive to gram-negative bacteria at certain time points. Study center, mode of delivery, parity, and infant diet were included as covariates.
Neither atopic eczema nor food-specific IgE by 18 months of age were associated with time of acquisition of any particular bacterial group. Cesarean section delayed colonization by Escherichia coli and Bacteroides and Bifidobacterium species, giving way to, for example, Clostridium species. Lack of older siblings was associated with earlier colonization by Clostridium species and lower strict anaerobic/facultative anaerobic ratio at 12 months.
This study does not support the hypothesis that sensitization to foods or atopic eczema in European infants in early life is associated with lack of any particular culturable intestinal commensal bacteria.
The nature of the microbial stimulus required for protection from allergy remains to be identified.

Modeling of anaerobic treatment of wastewater in ponds.A mathematical model to simulate the performance of anaerobic ponds was developed incorporating both settling of particulate components and the biological anaerobic digestion process. The biological activity includes solubilization of particulate organic matter; methanogenesis and the sulphate reduction process. The model considers that an anaerobic pond comprises a series of equal size columns. Each column has three compartments viz. liquid layer, active sediment layer and inert sediment layer. The existence of organic matter and sulphate removal mechanisms both in the bulk as well as sediment layer of the ponds and the exchange of the soluble components between the layers has been included in the model. The model was transferred to a computer program using VisSim Basic software. The model was verified by comparing simulated results with full-scale as well as with laboratory-scale anaerobic pond performance data. A good agreement between the simulated and the observed pond performance was achieved.

Neutral fat hydrolysis and long-chain fatty acid oxidation during anaerobic digestion of slaughterhouse wastewater.Neutral fat hydrolysis and long-chain fatty acid (LCFA) oxidation rates were determined during the digestion of slaughterhouse wastewater in anaerobic sequencing batch reactors operated at 25 degrees C. The experimental substrate consisted of filtered slaughterhouse wastewater supplemented with pork fat particles at various average initial sizes (D(in)) ranging from 60 to 450 microm. At the D(in) tested, there was no significant particle size effect on the first-order hydrolysis rate. The neutral fat hydrolysis rate averaged 0.63 +/- 0.07 d(-1). LCFA oxidation rate was modelled using a Monod-type equation. The maximum substrate utilization rate (kmax) and the half-saturation concentration (Ks) averaged 164 +/- 37 mg LCFA/L/d and 35 +/- 31 mg LCFA/L, respectively. Pork fat particle degradation was mainly controlled by LCFA oxidation rate and, to a lesser extent, by neutral fat hydrolysis rate. Hydrolysis pretreatment of fat-containing wastewaters and sludges should not substantially accelerate their anaerobic treatment. At a D(in) of 450 microm, fat particles were found to inhibit methane production during the initial 20 h of digestion. Inhibition of methane production in the early phase of digestion was the only significant effect of fat particle size on anaerobic digestion of pork slaughterhouse wastewater. Soluble COD could not be used to determine the rate of lipid hydrolysis due to LCFA adsorption on the biomass.

Treatment of landfill leachate by electrochemical oxidation and anaerobic process.The removal performance of typical refractory organic compounds in landfill leachate was investigated during the electrochemical (EC) oxidation and anaerobic process combined treatment system in this paper. The results indicated that the treatment of landfill leachate by the combined system was highly effective. The toxicity of leachate was notably decreased after the electrochemical oxidation process and the biodegradability was improved. The concentration of the organic acid with low molecular weight in the leachate increased from 28% to 90% based on the biodegradability assays after the EC oxidation process. The anaerobic digestion could further remove the residual organic compounds. At a hydraulic retention time (HRT) of 16 hours and an organic loading rate (OLR) of 8 kg COD/m3 d, the concentration of COD, SS, ALK, VA, N-TKN, N-NH4+ and P-PO4(3)- [corrected] in UASB effluent were 532, 12, 6744, 400, 540, 455 and 11.6 mg/L, respectively, with approximately 90% removal efficiency of COD. The organic compounds in the landfill leachate revealed different degradation characteristics in the combined system. p-chloroaniline, bisphenol A, 6-methyl-2-phenyl-quinoline, dimethylnaphthaline and N'-(2-methyl-4-chlorophenyl)-N-cyclohexyformamidine, classified into the first group in this paper, were completely removed by the EC oxidation and did not reappear in the effluent of the UASB reactor. Phenylacetic acid, 3-methyl-indole and N-cyclohexyl-acetamide, called the second group, were completely removed, but reappeared in the UASB reactor. 4-methyl-phenol, 3,4-dihydroisoquinoline, 2(3H)-benzothiazolone, exo-2-hydroxycineole and benzothiazole, the third group, were degraded little in the EC oxidation process, but extensively removed by the anaerobic process. Benzoic acid, benzenepropanoic acid and 2-cyano-3,5-dimethyl-1-hydroxypyrrole, the fourth group, concentration obviously increased in the EC process, but was completely removed in the UASB reactor. The content of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) markedly increased from 0.68% in the leachate to 16.18% in the effluent from the electrochemical oxidation process (EC(effl)). In addition, the degradation rate of organic compounds from the landfill leachate was different in the EC oxidation and anaerobic process.

Model-based design of an agricultural biogas plant: application of anaerobic digestion model no.1 for an improved four chamber scheme.Different digestion technologies for various substrates are addressed by the generic process description of Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1. In the case of manure or agricultural wastes a priori knowledge about the substrate in terms of ADM1 compounds is lacking and influent characterisation becomes a major issue. The actual project has been initiated for promotion of biogas technology in agriculture and for expansion of profitability also to rather small capacity systems. In order to avoid costly individual planning and installation of each facility a standardised design approach needs to be elaborated. This intention pleads for bio kinetic modelling as a systematic tool for process design and optimisation. Cofermentation under field conditions was observed, quality data and flow data were recorded and mass flow balances were calculated. In the laboratory different substrates have been digested separately in parallel under specified conditions. A configuration of four ADM1 model reactors was set up. Model calibration identified disintegration rate, decay rates for sugar degraders and half saturation constant for sugar as the three most sensitive parameters showing values (except the latter) about one order of magnitude higher than default parameters. Finally, the model is applied to the comparison of different reactor configurations and volume partitions. Another optimisation objective is robustness and load flexibility, i.e. the same configuration should be adaptive to different load situations only by a simple recycle control in order to establish a standardised design.

Effect of fluoroquinolone treatment on growth of and toxin production by epidemic and nonepidemic clostridium difficile strains in the cecal contents of mice.Several recent outbreaks of Clostridium difficile-associated disease (CDAD) have been attributed to the emergence of an epidemic strain with increased resistance to fluoroquinolone antibiotics. Some clinical studies have suggested that fluoroquinolones with enhanced antianaerobic activity (i.e., gatifloxacin and moxifloxacin) may have a greater propensity to induce CDAD than ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin do. We examined the effects of subcutaneous fluoroquinolone treatment on in vitro growth of and toxin production by epidemic and nonepidemic C. difficile isolates in cecal contents of mice and evaluated the potential for these agents to inhibit fluoroquinolone-susceptible isolates during treatment. When C. difficile isolates were inoculated into cecal contents collected 2 days after the final antibiotic dose, gatifloxacin and moxifloxacin promoted significantly more growth and toxin production than ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin did. During treatment, gatifloxacin and moxifloxacin inhibited growth of fluoroquinolone-susceptible but not fluoroquinolone-resistant isolates. Ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin promoted growth of C. difficile when administered at higher doses (i.e., 20 times the human dose in mg/kg of body weight), and levofloxacin inhibited growth of fluoroquinolone-susceptible, but not fluoroquinolone-resistant, C. difficile isolates when administered in combination with ceftriaxone. Thus, fluoroquinolones with enhanced antianaerobic activity (i.e., gatifloxacin and moxifloxacin) promoted C. difficile growth to a greater extent than did ciprofloxacin and levofloxacin in this model. However, our findings suggest that fluoroquinolones may exert selective pressure favoring the emergence of epidemic fluoroquinolone-resistant C. difficile strains by inhibiting fluoroquinolone-susceptible but not fluoroquinolone-resistant isolates during treatment and that agents such as levofloxacin or ciprofloxacin can exert such selective pressure when administered in combination with antibiotics that disrupt the anaerobic microflora.

A biofilm model for engineering design.A biofilm model is presented for process engineering purposes--wastewater treatment plant design, upgrade and optimisation. The model belongs in the 1D dynamic layered biofilm model category, with modifications that allow it to be used with one parameter set for a large range of process situations. The biofilm model is integrated with a general activated sludge/anaerobic digestion model combined with a chemical equilibrium, precipitation and pH module. This allows the model to simulate the complex interactions that occur in the aerobic, anoxic and anaerobic layers of the biofilm. The model has been tested and is shown to match a variety of design guidelines, as well as experimental results from batch testing and full-scale plant operation. Both moving bed bioreactors (MBBR) and integrated fixed film activated sludge (IFAS) systems were simulated using the same model and parameter set. A new steady-state solver generates fast solutions and allows interactive design work with the complex model.

Hydrolysis kinetics in anaerobic degradation of particulate organic material: an overview.The applicability of different kinetics to the hydrolysis of particulate organic material in anaerobic digestion is discussed. Hydrolysis has traditionally been modelled according to the first-order kinetics. For complex substrate, the first-order kinetics should be modified in order to take into account hardly degradable material. It has been shown that models in which hydrolysis is coupled to the growth of hydrolytic bacteria work well at high or at fluctuant organic loading. In particular, the surface-related two-phase and the Contois models showed good fits to experimental data from a wide range of organic waste. Both models tend to the first-order kinetics at a high biomass-to-waste ratio and, for this reason, they can be considered as more general models. Examples on different inhibition processes that might affect the degradation of solid waste are reported. Acetogenesis or methanogenesis might be the rate-limiting stages in complex waste. In such cases, stimulation of hydrolysis (mechanically, chemically or biologically) may lead to a further inhibition of these stages, which ultimately affects hydrolysis as well. Since the hydrolysis process is characterized by surface and transport phenomena, new developments in spatially distributed models are considered fundamental to provide new insights in this complex process.

Understanding the effects of diet on bacterial metabolism in the large intestine.Recent analyses of ribosomal RNA sequence diversity have demonstrated the extent of bacterial diversity in the human colon, and have provided new tools for monitoring changes in the composition of the gut microbial community. There is now an excellent opportunity to correlate ecological niches and metabolic activities with particular phylogenetic groups among the microbiota of the human gut. Bacteria that associate closely with particulate material and surfaces in the gut include specialized primary degraders of insoluble substrates, including resistant starch, plant structural polysaccharides and mucin. Butyrate-producing bacteria found in human faeces belong mainly to the clostridial clusters IV and XIVa. In vitro and in vivo evidence indicates that a group related to Roseburia and Eubacterium rectale plays a major role in mediating the butyrogenic effect of fermentable dietary carbohydrates. Additional cluster XIVa species can convert lactate to butyrate, while some members of the clostridial cluster IX convert lactate to propionate. The metabolic outputs of the gut microbial community depend not only on available substrate, but also on the gut environment, with pH playing a major role. Better understanding of the colonic microbial ecosystem will help to explain and predict the effects of dietary additives, including nondigestible carbohydrates, probiotics and prebiotics.

Modelling C and N mineralization during decomposition of anaerobically digested and composted municipal solid waste.Application of municipal solid waste (MSW) to arable land can be used to close the nutrient cycle between urban and rural areas. The aim of the current study was to quantify net N mineralization and respiration from composted MSW (CMSW) and anaerobically digested MSW (ADMSW) applied to soil, and to test whether a simple relationship between net N mineralization and respiration that was developed for plant materials, was applicable for these types of MSW. In a laboratory experiment, CMSW and ADMSW were incorporated into soil and incubated at 15 degrees C. During the 149-day experiment, netN mineralization and respiration were determined. Cumulative respiration derived from both MSW types was very steep during the first 30 days, after which it levelled off. However, calculated on the basis of applied C, the ADMSW was 10 times more degradable than the CMSW. Both MSW types caused initial net N immobilization followed by re-mineralization. A simple model based on the relationship between net N mineralization and respiration was only applicable for the MSW after significant modifications. If farmers are to recognize CMSW and ADMSW as valuable fertilizers, it is important that they can be produced with higher maturity, in order to avoid initial N immobilization.

Inhibition of anaerobic digestion process: a review.Anaerobic digestion is an attractive waste treatment practice in which both pollution control and energy recovery can be achieved. Many agricultural and industrial wastes are ideal candidates for anaerobic digestion because they contain high levels of easily biodegradable materials. Problems such as low methane yield and process instability are often encountered in anaerobic digestion, preventing this technique from being widely applied. A wide variety of inhibitory substances are the primary cause of anaerobic digester upset or failure since they are present in substantial concentrations in wastes. Considerable research efforts have been made to identify the mechanism and the controlling factors of inhibition. This review provides a detailed summary of the research conducted on the inhibition of anaerobic processes. The inhibitors commonly present in anaerobic digesters include ammonia, sulfide, light metal ions, heavy metals, and organics. Due to the difference in anaerobic inocula, waste composition, and experimental methods and conditions, literature results on inhibition caused by specific toxicants vary widely. Co-digestion with other waste, adaptation of microorganisms to inhibitory substances, and incorporation of methods to remove or counteract toxicants before anaerobic digestion can significantly improve the waste treatment efficiency.

Effects of ammonia on hydrolysis of proteins and lipids from fish residues.This study investigated the influence of ammonia on the hydrolysis rates of proteins and lipids in fish residues under mesophilic anaerobic incubation at a neutral pH. The hydrolysis kinetics of the fish residues, which contained primarily proteins and lipids, were examined at initial ammonia concentrations of 0-16 g N l(-1). Carbon hydrolysis was suppressed more by ammonium in the acidogenesis phase than in the acidogenesis/methanogenesis period of a single-stage anaerobic digestion. Conversely, hydrolysis of compounds containing nitrogen was similarly suppressed by ammonia during acidogenesis and acidogenesis/methanogenesis phases of a single-stage anaerobic digestion. Parameter uncertainty analysis demonstrated that the proteins fraction in the fish residues was entirely biodegradable. Model fitting demonstrated that two fractions of lipid substrates exist, namely, easy and hard to biodegrade with hydrolysis rates that were affected differently by ammonia content.

Effect of extended cold ischemia time on glucose metabolism in liver grafts: experimental study in pigs.Recovery of normal carbohydrate metabolism in the liver after transplantation is highly important. The aim of the present study was to evaluate how short and long cold ischemia (CI) time followed by warm ischemia (WI) impact intrahepatic glucose metabolism in a pig liver transplantation model.
Twenty-six animals were divided into two transplantation groups: group I with a liver ischemia time of 5 h (n = 6), and group II with 15 h of liver ischemia (n = 7). Intrahepatic microdialysis samples were collected throughout the experiment at 20-min intervals, during the donor operation, cold preservation, liver implantation, and liver reperfusion in the recipient. Glucose, lactate, and pyruvate concentrations were analyzed and the lactate/pyruvate ratio (L/Pr) was calculated.
There were no changes in glucose levels during CI. However, during WI, glucose and lactate increased and the increase was significantly higher in the group with longer CI (P < 0.01). The L/Pr increased at the beginning of CI but accelerated to increase during WI in both groups, with significantly prolonged and higher levels in the group with longer CI (P < 0.01).
Extended CI results in increased intrahepatic glycogenolysis, delayed restoration of aerobic glycolysis, and prolonged anaerobic glycolysis shortly after reperfusion. Improvements in glycogen protection and faster restoration of aerobic metabolism during preservation and reperfusion time seem to be necessary in order to improve liver preservation protocols per se.

Prediction of methane yield at optimum pH for anaerobic digestion of organic fraction of municipal solid waste.A concept of methane yield at optimum pH was advanced and subsequently a mathematical model that simulates the optimal pH of a batch process for anaerobic digestion of organic fraction of municipal solid waste (MSW) was developed and validated. The model was developed on the basis of the microbial growth kinetics and was divided into three processes: hydrolysis of substrates by hydrolytic bacteria, consumption of soluble substrate by acidogenic bacteria, and finally consumption of acetate and methane generated by methanogenic bacteria. Material balance and liquid phase equilibrium chemistry were used in this study. A series of experiments were conducted to validate the model. The model simulation results agreed reasonably with experimental data in different temperatures and total solid (TS) concentrations under uncontrolled pH. A computer circulation program was used to predict the optimal pH in different conditions. Experiments in different temperatures and TS were run under optimal pH which predicted by the model. The model was succeeded in increasing the methane production and the cumulative methane production had an average increment about 35% in optimal pH of different temperatures and TS.

Inactivation of Escherichia coli O157:H7 during thermophilic anaerobic digestion of manure from dairy cattle.Inactivation of the pathogenic Escherichia coli serotype O157:H7 and a non-pathogenic E. coli strain isolated from dairy cattle manure was evaluated with batch tests at 50 and 55 degrees C in biosolids from a thermophilic anaerobic digester treating the manure. Using differential-selective plating on sorbitol-MacConkey (SMAC) agar to quantify E. coli, the decline in concentrations of both the sorbitol-negative (putative E. coli O157:H7) and sorbitol-positive (putative non-pathogenic E. coli) organisms followed a model that assumed there was a heat-sensitive fraction and a heat-resistant fraction. Inactivation rates of the heat-sensitive fractions were similar for both colony types at each temperature, suggesting that wild-type E. coli can be used as an indicator of inactivation of serotype O157:H7. The decimal reduction time for the heat-sensitive fractions was in the order of 10min at 55 degrees C and ranged from approximately 1-3h at 50 degrees C. Concentrations of heat-resistant organisms at 55 degrees C were 1.4-1.7log(10)cfu/mL. Confirmatory analyses conducted on 30 randomly selected colonies of heat-resistant sorbitol-negative cells from treatment at 55 degrees C indicated that none were serotype O157:H7, nor were they E. coli. Similar analyses on 10 sorbitol-negative isolates from untreated manure indicated that none were serotype O157:H7, although 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis indicated that eight were E. coli or closely related enteric bacteria. These findings suggest that plating on differential-selective media to quantify E. coli, including serotype O157:H7, in effluent samples from thermophilic anaerobic digestion can lead to false positive results. Therefore, more specific methods should be used to evaluate the extent of thermal inactivation of both pathogenic and non-pathogenic E. coli in manure treatment systems.

Optimization of cellulase complex formulation for peashrub biomass hydrolysis.To improve efficiency and reduce cost, solid state simultaneous saccharification and fermentation of peashrub woody biomass was investigated under anaerobic conditions at 50 degrees C, with a cellulase-inoculant mixture consisting of Trichoderma koningii cellulase, Aspergillus niger cellulase, and Lactobacillus. Experimental formulations were prepared according to uniform prescription design principles. By crude protein, crude fiber models constructed using multivariate regression in SPSS and solutions analysis through unconstrained mathematical optimization in Microsoft Excel, it was clearly revealed that low pH value (3.8) from lactic acid accumulation produced by Lactobacillus would ultimately limit enzymatic hydrolysis during long-term fermentation (30 days). It was shown that a cellulase complex with filter paper cellulase/carboxymethyl cellulase/cotton lyase/beta-glucosidase/pectinase of activity ratios of 0.6:1:0.3:1:2.6 could effectively break peashrub cell wall structure by biodegradation of easily digested components and, then, release cellular contents to improve crude protein content. Thus, the enzymatic hydrolysis of peashrub biomass by the optimized cellulase complex could improve crude protein content by 45.3% (from 8.45 to 12.28%), although it only biodegraded about 10.90% of the crude fiber (from 44.45 to 40.08%).

Effects of oxidative stress on the virulence profile of Prevotella intermedia during experimental infection in gnotobiotic mice.Prevotella intermedia is a component of the indigenous microbiota but is also responsible for anaerobic infections of the gastrointestinal tract and oral cavity. The aim of the present study was to investigate the influence of oxidative stress on the in vivo pathogenicity of P. intermedia. Germ-free mice were challenged intraperitoneally with parental (wt) or oxidative stress adapted (aero) strains. Bacterial virulence was evaluated by histopathology, hyperaemia and blood analysis [C-reactive protein (CRP), serum albumin and white blood cells (WBCs)], 3 and 10 days after challenge. CRP levels and WBC count were higher in animals challenged with the aero strain, and the albumin level was lower in this group, only 10 days after infection (P<0.05). Body weight gain was significantly reduced whereas hyperaemia and ratios of spleen/organ weight were increased in animals challenged with the aero strain (P<0.05). The liver of animals challenged with the aero strain showed hyperaemia, vasodilatation as well as an increase in the number of inflammatory cells and liver/organ weight ratio (P<0.05). Similar, but more discrete, alterations were observed in the small intestine of animals challenged with the aero strain. Studies on stress responses of this putative pathogen may help to better understand the aggressive potential and virulence markers of anaerobic bacteria.

Identification of glucose-fermenting bacteria present in an in vitro model of the human intestine by RNA-stable isotope probing.16S rRNA-based stable isotope probing (SIP) and nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) spectroscopy-based metabolic profiling were used to identify bacteria fermenting glucose under conditions simulating the human intestine. The TIM-2 in vitro model of the human intestine was inoculated with a GI tract microbiota resembling that of the small intestine, to which subsequently 4, 20 or 40 mM of [U-(13)C]-glucose were added. RNA was extracted from lumen samples after 0 (control), 1, 2 and 4 h and subjected to density-gradient ultracentrifugation. Phylogenetic analysis of unlabeled 16S rRNA revealed a microbial community dominated by lactic acid bacteria and Clostridium perfringens. Distinct (13)C-incorporation into bacterial RNA was only observed for the 40-mM addition. 16S rRNA fingerprinting showed an activity drop of Lactobacillus fermentum after glucose addition, while Streptococcus bovis and C. perfringens were identified as the most active glucose-fermenters. Accordingly, NMR analysis identified lactate, acetate, butyrate and formate as the principal fermentation products, constituting up to 91% of the (13)C-carbon balance. RNA-SIP combined with metabolic profiling allowed us to detect differential utilization of a general model carbohydrate, indicating that this approach holds great potential to identify bacteria involved in the fermentation of dietary relevant oligo- and polymeric carbohydrates in the human intestine.

Phosphorus forms and extractability in dairy manure: a case study for Wisconsin on-farm anaerobic digesters.The effect of anaerobic digestion on phosphorus (P) forms and water P extractability was investigated using dairy manure samples from six full-scale on-farm anaerobic digesters in Wisconsin, USA. On an average, total dissolved P (TDP) constituted 12 +/- 4% of total P (TP) in the influent to the anaerobic digesters. Only 7 +/- 2% of the effluent was in a dissolved form. Dissolved unreactive P (DUP), comprising polyphosphates and organic P, dominated the dissolved P component in both the influent and effluent. In most cases, it appeared that the fraction of DUP mineralized during anaerobic digestion became subsequently associated with particulate-bound solids. Geochemical equilibrium modeling with Mineql+ indicated that dicalcium phosphate dihydrate, dicalcium phosphate anhydrous, octacalcium phosphate, newberyite, and struvite were the probable solid phases in both the digester influent and effluent samples. The water-extractable P (WEP) fraction in undigested manure ranged from 45% to 70% of TP, which reduced substantially after anaerobic digestion to 25% to 45% of TP. Anaerobic digestion of dairy manure appears capable of reducing the fraction of P that is immediately available by increasing the stability of the solid phases controlling P solubility.

Anaerobic digestion of wastewater derived from the pressing of orange peel generated in orange juice production.A study of the anaerobic digestion of wastewater from the pressing of orange peel generated in orange juice production was carried out in a laboratory-scale completely stirred tank reactor at mesophilic temperature (37 degrees C). Prior to anaerobic treatment the raw wastewater was subjected to physicochemical treatment using aluminum sulfate as a flocculant and to pH reduction using a solution of sulfuric acid. The reactor was batch fed at COD loads of 1.5, 2.0, 2.5, 3.0, 3.5, 4.0, 4.5, and 5.0 g of COD. The process was very stable for all of the loads studied, with mean pH and alkalinity values of 7.5 and 3220 mg of CaCO3/L, respectively. The anaerobic digestion of this substrate was found to follow a first-order kinetic model, from which the specific rate constants for methane production, K(G), were determined. The K(G) values decreased considerably from 0.0672 to 0.0078 L/(g h) when the COD load increased from 1.5 to 5.0 g of COD, indicating an inhibition phenomenon in the system studied. The proposed model predicted the behavior of the reactor very accurately, showing deviations of <5% between the experimental and theoretical values of methane production. The methane yield coefficient was found to be 295 mL of CH4 STP/g of COD removed, whereas the mean biodegradability of the substrate (TOC) was 88.2%. A first-order kinetic model for substrate (TOC) consumption allowed determination of the specific rate constants for substrate uptake, K(C), which also decreased with increasing loading, confirming the above-mentioned inhibition process. Finally, the evolution of the individual volatile fatty acid concentrations (acetic, C2; propionic, C3; butyric, C4; isobutyric, iC4; valeric, C5; isovaleric, iC5; and caproic, C6) with digestion time for all loads used was also studied. The main acids generated were acetic and propionic for all loads studied, facilitating the conversion into methane.

Biofuels generation from sweet sorghum: fermentative hydrogen production and anaerobic digestion of the remaining biomass.The present study focuses on the exploitation of sweet sorghum biomass as a source for hydrogen and methane. Fermentative hydrogen production from the sugars of sweet sorghum extract was investigated at different hydraulic retention times (HRT). The subsequent methane production from the effluent of the hydrogenogenic process and the methane potential of the remaining solids after the extraction process were assessed as well. The highest hydrogen production rate (2550 ml H(2)/d) was obtained at the HRT of 6h while the highest yield of hydrogen produced per kg of sorghum biomass was achieved at the HRT of 12h (10.4l H(2)/kg sweet sorghum). It has been proved that the effluent from the hydrogenogenic reactor is an ideal substrate for methane production with approximately 29l CH(4)/kg of sweet sorghum. Anaerobic digestion of the solid residues after the extraction process yielded 78l CH(4)/kg of sweet sorghum. This work demonstrated that biohydrogen production can be very efficiently coupled with a subsequent step of methane production and that sweet sorghum could be an ideal substrate for a combined gaseous biofuels production.

Therapeutic effects of roxithromycin in interleukin-10-deficient colitis.A limited number of therapeutic strategies are currently available to treat patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Interleukin-10 (IL-10)-deficient mice, well characterized as an experimental model of IBD, develop severe chronic colitis because of aberrant Th1 responses. Roxithromycin (RXM), a macrolide antibiotic, has received attention because it offers not only antibacterial but also immunosuppressive effects. We examined the immunosuppressive effect of RXM on the development of IBD.
To test the efficacy of short-term administration of RXM, elder IL-10-deficient mice (16-20 weeks old) with established colitis were orally treated for 10 days with RXM (20 mg/kg per day). To test the long-term preventive effects of RXM, for 20 weeks young adult IL-10-deficient mice (4-5 weeks old) also were administered RXM orally (20 mg/kg per day).
The short-term treatment-oriented administration of RXM reduced the degree of inflammatory change and lowered serum amyloid A in IL-10-deficient mice with severe colitis. Mononuclear cells from the lamina propria of RXM-treated large intestines showed lower production of IFN-gamma than did those from diseased mice that were untreated. Long-term prevention-oriented administration of RXM suppressed the development of severe colitis and decreased production of IFN-gamma and IL-12. In addition to its expected immunosuppressive effect, RXM treatment also decreased the level of Bacteroides vulgatus, a Gram-negative anaerobe.
The anti-inflammatory changes observed in IL-10-deficient mice resulted from the efficacy of RXM as an immunosuppressant as well as from its efficacy as an antibiotic. According to our findings, RXM would seem to have significant potential as a preventive and/or therapeutic agent for IBD.

Selective desorption of carbon dioxide from sewage sludge for in situ methane enrichment--Part II: Modelling and evaluation of experiments.In situ methane enrichment in anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge has been investigated by experiments and by modelling. Sludge from a full scale digester was fed to a pilot scale bubble column having 0.3 m diameter for preferential desorption of carbon dioxide. In this second part, a model describing the steady-state performance of the bubble column for desorption of carbon dioxide and methane has been developed. The column is assumed to operate in the homogeneous flow regime, and with respect to carbon dioxide and methane both phases are described by the axial dispersion model. The model treats the chemical reaction equilibrium between carbon dioxide and bicarbonate as being slow and the bicarbonate concentration as being constant. The model is correlated to previously reported experimental results to determine the liquid side mass transfer coefficient in each experiment. A simple power law model is used to correlate the mass transfer coefficient to the gas flow rate. In general, the model allows for a reasonable qualitative description of the behaviour of the bubble column performance but the quantitative agreement with experimental results is not satisfactory. It is believed, though that the main problem is actually not in the model but is related to experimental uncertainties concerning inlet concentrations of liquid phase methane and bicarbonate.

Isolation and characterization of the Omp-PA porin from Porphyromonas asaccharolytica, determination of the omp-PA gene sequence and prediction of Omp-PA protein structure.A single monomeric porin, Omp-PA (37kDa), was isolated from the outer membrane of the gram-negative anaerobic rod Porphyromonas asaccharolytica. Further characterization revealed that this porin consists of two different fractions: a heat-modifiable fraction which in its denatured form migrated on SDS-PAGE as a protein with a molecular weight of 41kDa and a heat-resistant fraction which did not change its migration on SDS-PAGE after boiling. A liposome swelling assay revealed that only the heat-resistant fraction was able to transport sugars after its incorporation into the liposomes, although it did not discriminate between differently sized sugars. We hypothesize that the heat-modifiable fraction corresponds to the "closed" conformer of Omp-PA, whereas the heat-resistant fraction corresponds to the "open" conformer of the protein. Cloning of the omp-PA gene revealed an open reading frame of 1161 bases, with a predicted protein sequence of 387 amino acids. The mature protein consists of 366 amino acids with a calculated MW of 41,102Da and an estimated pI of 7.24. The C-terminal domain of Omp-PA is homologous to the characteristic OmpA signature domain (71% similarity with the OmpA consensus domain). Sequence comparison with other anaerobes from the Bacteroides family demonstrated homology across the entire ORF. Digestion of the P. asaccharolytica outer membrane analysis of trypsin-digested Omp-PA yielded two proteins migrating with apparent molecular weights of 37 and 27kDa. These data fully supported our hypothesis that the C-terminal domain of the two-domain "closed" conformer of Omp-PA was digested by trypsin, whereas the single domain beta-barrel "open" conformer was inaccessible to trypsin.

A comparison of the performance of mesophilic and thermophilic anaerobic filters treating papermill wastewater.Two anaerobic filters, one mesophilic (35 degrees C) and one thermophilic (55 degrees C), were operated with a papermill wastewater at a series of organic loadings. The hydraulic retention time (HRT) ranged from 6 to 24 h with organic loading rates (OLR) 1.07-12.25 g/l per day. At loading rates up to 8.4 g COD/l d, there was no difference in terms of the removal of soluble COD (SCOD) and gas production. At the higher organic loading rate, the SCOD removal performance of thermophilic digester was slightly better compare to mesophilic digester. Similar trend was also observed in terms of the daily methane production. The stability of thermophilic digester was also better than mesophilic digester particularly for the higher organic loadings. Volatile fatty acid accumulation was observed in the effluent of the mesophilic filter at the higher organic loading rates. The Stover-Kincannon model was applied to both digesters and it was found that model was applicable to both digesters for papermill wastewater. K(B) and U(max) constants from the Stover-Kincannon model were also derived.

Tracking influent inorganic suspended solids through wastewater treatment plants.From an experimental and theoretical investigation of the continuity of influent inorganic suspended solids (ISS) along the links connecting the primary settling tank (PST), fully aerobic or N removal activated sludge (AS) and anaerobic and aerobic sludge digestion unit operations, it was found that the influent wastewater (fixed) ISS concentration is conserved through primary sludge anaerobic digestion, activated sludge and aerobic digestion unit operations. However, the measured ISS flux at different stages through a series of wastewater treatment plant (WWTP) unit operations is not equal to the influent ISS flux, because the ordinary heterotrophic organisms (OHO) biomass contributes to the ISS flux by differing amounts depending on the active fraction of the VSS solids at that stage.

Anaerobic fermentation of cattle manure: modeling of hydrolysis and acidogenesis.A mathematical model for the hydrolysis and acidogenesis reactions in anaerobic digestion of cattle manure is presented. This model is based on the premise that particulate hydrolysable fraction of cattle manure is composed of cellulose and hemicellulose that are hydrolyzed at different rates according to a surface-limiting reaction; and, that the respective soluble products of hydrolysis are utilized by acidogens at different rates, according to a two-substrate, single-biomass model. Batch experimental results were used to identify the sensitive parameters and to calibrate and validate the model. Results predicted by the model agreed well with the experimentally measured data not used in the calibration process, with correlation coefficient exceeding 0.91. These results indicate that the most significant parameter in the hydrolysis-acidogenesis phase is the hydrolysis rate constant for the cellulose fraction.

Effects of temperature and hydraulic retention time on anaerobic digestion of food waste.A modified three-stage methane fermentation system was developed to digest food waste efficiently. This system consisted of three stages: semianaerobic hydrolysis, anaerobic acidogenesis and strictly anaerobic methanogenesis. In this study, we examined the effects of temperature and hydraulic retention time (HRT) on the methanogenesis. Operation temperature was adjusted from 30 degrees C to 55 degrees C, and the HRTs ranged from 8 to 12 d. The rate of soluble chemical oxygen demand (sCOD) removal correlated with digestion time according to the first-order kinetic model developed by Grau et al. [Water Res., 9, 637-642 (1975)]. With liquor food waste, thermophilic digesters showed a higher rate of sCOD removal than mesophilic digesters. The rates of biogas and methane production by thermophilic digesters were higher than those by mesophilic digesters regardless of HRT. Although maximum biogas production occurred when an HRT of 10 d was used, the methane yield was the highest in the reactor when an HRT of 12 d was used (223 l CH4/kg sCODdegraded). However, digestion stability decreased when an HRT of 8 d was used. The concentration of NH3-N generated in this experiment did not inhibit anaerobic digestion.

[Kinetic of pH control in anaerobic digestion of organic fraction of municipal solid waste in a batch reactor].Using a material and ionization balance analysis of anaerobic digestion process, a kinetic model of pH control in a batch anaerobic digestion of organic fraction of municipal solid waste was established on the basis of substrate decay and microbial growth kinetics, and a corresponding computer soft ware was created. The optimal pH in different anaerobic digestion can be predicted by this model. Consequently the maximal methane production can be obtained in anaerobic system by controlling the pH in optimal value. Comparative experiments were conducted to validate the model. The experiments demonstrated that the methane production of anaerobic system under optimal pH was steadier than the same condition under uncontrolled pH, and the cumulative methane production had an average increment about 20%.

Integrated chemical, physical and biological processes modelling of anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge.The biological kinetic processes for anaerobic digestion (AD) are integrated into a two phase subset of a three phase mixed weak acid/base chemistry kinetic model. The approach of characterising sewage sludge into carbohydrates, lipids and proteins, as is done in the International Water Association (IWA) AD model No 1 (ADM1), requires measurements that are not routinely available on sewage sludges. Instead, the sewage sludge is characterised with the COD, carbon, hydrogen, oxygen and nitrogen (CHON) composition and is formulated in mole units, based on conservation of C, N, O, H and COD. The model is calibrated and validated with data from laboratory mesophilic anaerobic digesters operating from 7 to 20 d sludge age and fed a sewage primary and humus sludge mixture. These digesters yielded COD mass balances between 107-109% and N mass balances between 91-99%, and hence the experimental data is accepted as reasonable. The sewage sludge COD is found to be 32-36% unbiodegradable (depending on the kinetic formulation selected for the hydrolysis process) and to have a C3.5H7O2N0.196 composition. For the selected hydrolysis kinetics of surface mediated reaction (Contois), with a single set of kinetic and stoichiometric constants, for all retention times good correlation is obtained between predicted and measured results for: (i) COD; (ii) free and saline ammonia (FSA); (iii) short chain fatty acids (SCFA); (iv) H2CO3 * alkalinity; (v) pH of the effluent stream; (vi) CO2; and (vii) CH4 gases in the gas stream. The measured composition of primary sludge from two local wastewater treatment plants ranged between C3.38H7O1.91 N0.21 and C3.91H7O2.04N0.16. The predicted composition based on mass balances is therefore within 5% of the average measured composition providing persuasive validation of the model.

Evaluation of conditioning responses of thermophilic-mesophilic anaerobically and mesophilic aerobically digested biosolids using rheological properties.One of the most crucial processes in biosolids management is stabilisation, which is typically accomplished using either anaerobic or aerobic digestion processes. Although there are many advantages to both of these methods--such as reduction of volatile organic matter, pathogen content, and offensive odours--one common disadvantage is that digested biosolids exhibit poor dewaterability characteristics. The deterioration in dewaterability of digested biosolids leads to increases in polymer requirements, connoting higher conditioning costs. Many studies have examined this phenomenon based on conventional filterability tests such as capillary suction time and specific resistance to filtration. However, these test methods are limited in their ability to predict full-scale dewatering behaviour (particularly in centrifugation), and do not regard handling properties as being important for sludge transport. For this purpose, new rheometric methods may assist in predicting sludge behaviour, potentially allowing optimisation of stabilisation and conditioning processes relative to the desired sludge properties. This paper investigates the possible utility of these methods. Classical methods for characterising biosolids, such as filtration tests, are compared with yield stress values and other rheological properties as determined using the steady-shear rate sweep test. The rheological behaviours are compared for different sludge types, including raw and polymer conditioned thermophilic anaerobically, mesophilic anaerobically, and mesophilic aerobically digested biosolids. The paper demonstrates the determination of specific energy values associated with breakdown of the flocculated matrix. Robust modelling approaches are employed to optimise the conditioning of the digested samples, and to shed light on commonly used rheological models such as Bingham, Herschel-Bulkley, and Ostwald equations.

Removal of ammonia as struvite from anaerobic digester effluents and recycling of magnesium and phosphate.A second order kinetic model was developed to predict the rate and extent of NH(4)(+) removal as struvite from anaerobic digester effluents. Alternative to this, NH(4)(+) can be recovered from struvite and the remaining Mg(2+) and PO(4)(3-) can be recycled back to the wastewater to fix more NH(4)(+). The NH(4)(+) solution was retained and the remaining Mg(2+) and PO(4)(3-) were returned back to be mixed with wastewater. In a five-step process, NH(4)(+) recovery was initially 92% and progressively decreased to 77% in the fifth stage, due to loss of Mg(2+) and PO(4)(3-) at each step in the supernatant. Finally, economic analysis of recycling nutrients was performed and compared to the one step process. The cost of NH(4)(+) recovery was calculated as $0.36/kgNH(4)-N which is lower than $7.7/kgNH(4)-N the cost of one step process without considering the market value of struvite obtained in one step process.

Partial least square modeling of hydrolysis: analyzing the impacts of pH and acetate.pH and volatile fatty acids both might affect the further hydrolysis of particulate solid waste, which is the limiting-step of anaerobic digestion. To clarify the individual effects of pH and volatile fatty acids, batch experiments were conducted at fixed pH value (pH 5-9) with or without acetate (20 g/L). The hydrolysis efficiencies of carbohydrate and protein were evaluated by carbon and nitrogen content of solids, amylase activity and proteinase activity. The trend of carbohydrate hydrolysis with pH was not affected by the addition of acetate, following the sequence of pH 7>pH 8>pH 9>pH 6>pH 5; but the inhibition of acetate (20 g/L) was obvious by 10%-60 %. The evolution of residual nitrogen showed that the effect of pH on protein hydrolysis was minor, while the acetate was seriously inhibitory especially at alkali condition by 45%-100 %. The relationship between the factors (pH and acetate) and the response variables was evaluated by partial least square modeling (PLS). The PLS analysis demonstrated that the hydrolysis of carbohydrate was both affected by pH and acetate, with pH the more important factor. Therefore, the inhibition by acetate on carbohydrate hydrolysis was mainly due to the corresponding decline of pH, but the presence of acetate species, while the acetate species was the absolutely important factor for the hydrolysis of protein.

Low hematocrit impairs gastric mucosal CO2 removal during experimental severe normovolemic hemodilution.The net effects of acute normovolemic hemodilution with different hemoglobin levels on splanchnic perfusion have not been elucidated. The hypothesis that during moderate and severe normovolemic hemodilution, systemic and splanchnic hemodynamic parameters, oxygen-derived variables, and biochemical markers of anaerobic metabolism do not reflect the adequacy of gastric mucosa, was tested in this study.
Twenty one anesthetized mongrel dogs (16 +/- 1 kg) were randomized to controls (CT, n = 7, no hemodilution), moderate hemodilution (hematocrit 2 5% +/- 3%, n = 7) or severe hemodilution (severe hemodilution, hematocrit 15% +/- 3%, n = 7), through an isovolemic exchange of whole blood and 6% hydroxyethyl starch, at a 20 mL/min rate, to the target hematocrit. The animals were followed for 120 min after hemodilution. Cardiac output (CO, L/min), portal vein blood flow (PVF, mL/min), portal vein-arterial and gastric mucosa-arterial CO2 gradients (PV-artCO2 and PCO2 gap, mm Hg, respectively) were measured throughout the experiment.
Exchange blood volumes were 33.9 +/- 3.3 and 61.5 +/- 5.8 mL/kg for moderate hemodilution and severe hemodilution, respectively. Arterial pressure and systemic and regional lactate levels remained stable in all groups. There were initial increases in cardiac output and portal vein blood flow in both moderate hemodilution and severe hemodilution; systemic and regional oxygen consumption remained stable largely due to increases in oxygen extraction rate. There was a significant increase in the PCO2-gap value only in severe hemodilution animals.
Global and regional hemodynamic stability were maintained after moderate and severe hemodilution. However, a very low hematocrit induced gastric mucosal acidosis, suggesting that gastric mucosal CO2 monitoring may be useful during major surgery or following trauma.

Thermal hydrolysis of secondary scum for control of biological foam.Thermal hydrolysis of secondary scum at 9 bars and 170 degrees C was shown to completely destroy Gordonia sp. cells and reduce its foaming potential, so that it can be recycled to headworks or sent to the solids-handling side of the plant without the risk of causing foaming problems in the activated sludge system and anaerobic digesters. This process shows promise for biological foam control in wastewater treatment plants where solids retention time control and selective wasting cannot be applied and/or selector installation is not possible. An initial cost comparison of thermal hydrolysis and several widely accepted foam-management strategies shows it to be competitive; however, optimization of operating pressure and temperature is necessary.

Anaerobic digestion of solid material: multidimensional modeling of continuous-flow reactor with non-uniform influent concentration distributions.A new multidimensional (3 and 2D) anaerobic digestion model for cylindrical reactor with non-uniform influent concentration distributions was developed to study the way in which mixing intensity affects the efficiency of continuous-flow anaerobic digestion. Batch experiments reported and simulated earlier by Vavilin and Angelidaki (2005) were used to modernize a kinetic scheme and to obtain the corresponding kinetic coefficients. In the new models, hydrolytic microorganisms were included using Contois kinetics for the hydrolysis/acidogenesis degradation of municipal solid waste (MSW). Monod kinetics was applied for description of methanogenesis. Both hydrolytic and methanogenic microorganisms were assumed to be inhibited by high volatile fatty acids (VFA) concentration. According to the new distributed models, the mixing level reduction expressed by increasing dimensionless Peclet number may improve the continuous flow reactor performance at the relatively low influent methanogenic biomass concentration. In the continuously stirred tank reactor (CSTR) there are two steady states with and without methane production at slightly different values of initial methanogenic biomass concentration. In the system, the threshold methanogenic biomass concentration existed because of inhibition by high VFA concentration. High methanogenic biomass concentration is required for efficient anaerobic digestion of MSW in order to avoid possible inhibition due to high VFA build-up. Thus, CSTR configuration might have unstable dynamics at high organic loading as shown in earlier experiments carried out by Stroot et al. (2001). A gradual increase of organic loading during the start up of a completely mixed digester causing an accumulation of methanogenic biomass is a solution to prevent a probable digester failure. According to the distributed models a plug-flow reactor with non-uniform influent concentration distributions where methanogenic and hydrolytic microorganisms are separated has significant methane production and solids removal at the relatively low influent methanogenic biomass concentration.

Biodegradability of activated sludge organics under anaerobic conditions.From an experimental and theoretical investigation of the continuity of activated sludge organic (COD) compounds along the link between the fully aerobic or N removal activated sludge and anaerobic digestion unit operations, it was found that the unbiodegradable particulate organics (i) originating from the influent wastewater and (ii) generated by the activated sludge endogenous process, as determined from response of the activated sludge system, are also unbiodegradable under anaerobic digestion conditions. This means that the activated sludge biodegradable organics that can be anaerobically digested can be calculated from the active fraction of the waste activated sludge based on the widely accepted ordinary heterotrophic organism (OHO) endogenous respiration/death regeneration rates and unbiodegradable fraction. This research shows that the mass balances based steady state and dynamic simulation activated sludge, aerobic digestion and anaerobic digestion models provide internally consistent and externally compatible elements that can be coupled to produce plant wide steady state and dynamic simulation WWTP models.

Application of ADM1 for the simulation of anaerobic digestion of olive pulp under mesophilic and thermophilic conditions.The management of the wastewater originating from olive oil producing industries poses a serious environmental problem. Recently, two-phase production of olive oil has been developed, leading to almost complete elimination of the bulk of the generated wastewater and, is thus regarded as an environmentally friendly technology. However, the main waste stream (olive pulp) is a slurry material characterized by high solids concentration (approximately 30%), requiring stabilisation before its final disposal. The anaerobic digestion of olive pulp is studied in this work under mesophilic and thermophilic conditions in CSTR-type digesters. The digesters were fed with water-diluted (1:4) olive pulp at an HRT of 20 days and an OLR of 3.94 kg COD m(-3) d(-1). In order to study the process kinetics, the digesters were subjected to impulse disturbances of different substrates. The IWA anaerobic digestion model was used to simulate the reactors' response. Some key process parameters, such as the specific maximum uptake rate constants and the saturation constants for the volatile fatty acids degradation were estimated and compared with the standard values suggested by the ADM1.

Parameter analysis of the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 for the anaerobic digestion of blackwater with kitchen refuse.The IWA anaerobic digestion model No.1 (ADM1) had been successfully applied to the lab-scale mesophilic blackwater anaerobic digestion (BWAD) plant for cases of only blackwater (BW) feeding and of BW plus kitchen refuse (KR) feeding. In this paper, the simulation results of BW + KR anaerobic digestion are presented and discussed, followed by the analyses and discussion of the critical and important parameters as well as the performance of ADM1 based on these results. The raw BW can contain up to 30% short chain fatty acids (SCFA) which severely impact the performance of the model. The model proved that the disintegration/hydrolysis rate of BW is around 4.5 d(-1), which is about ten times higher than that of KR (Kdis,KR = 0.5 d(-1)). ADM1 is not sensitive to the distribution ratio among carbohydrates, proteins and lipids. For BWAD the C4 metabolism can be integrated in the uptake of LCFA. The uptake delay phenomenon was observed and cannot be simulated by ADM1, but it is tolerable. No unique KI,NH3,ac is found out for all investigated ammonia concentration ranges. Meanwhile, ADM1 is not sensitive to KLa and kp1 so they can easily be set up.

Modelling anaerobic digestion acclimatisation to a biodegradable toxicant: application to cyanide.The observed acclimatisation to biodegradable toxicants in anaerobic cassava wastewater treatment is explained by modelling anaerobic cyanide degradation. A complete degradation pathway is proposed for cyanide. Cyanide degradation is modelled as enzymatic hydrolysis to formate and ammonia. Ammonia is added to the inorganic nitrogen content of the digester while formate is degraded by the hydrogenotrophic methanogens. Cyanide irreversible enzyme inhibition is modelled as an inhibition factor to acetate uptake processes. Cyanide irreversible toxicity is modelled as a decay factor to the acetate degraders. Cyanide as well as added phosphorus buffer solution were considered in the chemical equilibrium calculations of pH. The observed reversible effect after acclimatisation of sludge is modelled by a population shift between two aceticlastic methanogens that have different tolerance to cyanide toxicity. The proposed pathway is added to the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model no.1 (ADM1). The ADM1 model with the designed extension is validated by an experiment using three lab-scale upflow anaerobic sludge bed reactors which were exposed to different cyanide loadings.

Simulation of DEHP biodegradation and sorption during the anaerobic digestion of secondary sludge.Di-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) has commonly been found in the sludge of municipal wastewater treatment plants especially during anaerobic processing. It is slowly biodegradable under anaerobic conditions. Due to its high hydrophobicity, sorption-desorption processes can be rate-limiting for the compound biodegradation. In this study, the anaerobic biodegradation of DEHP was investigated through batch kinetic experiments and dynamic transitions of a continuous stirred tank reactor (CSTR) fed with secondary sludge contaminated with DEHP. A widely accepted model (ADM1) was used to fit the anaerobic digestion of secondary sludge and was properly extended to account for DEHP removal, in which mass transfer processes are also involved. It was shown that DEHP removal was limited by the transfer of DEHP within the solid fraction. The criterion selected for the distinction of the two sites was whether the compound sorbed in those sites was bioavailable for biodegradation or not. Thus, the aqueous phase and the surface of the biosolids were considered as suitable sites for the compound to be bioavailable and the main bulk of the solid matrix was regarded as sites, where the compound remains "protected" against biodegradation. The model, fitted to the batch experimental data, was able to predict DEHP removal in the CSTR operated at various HRTs.

Modifying ADM1 to include formation and emission of odourants.A mathematical model that is based upon the ADM1 structure has been developed to describe the formation and emission of odourous compounds in anaerobic sludge digestion. Special emphasis is given to the general mechanisms for the formation of common odorous sulfur compounds that are found in anaerobic digesters: methyl mercaptan, dimethyl sulfide and hydrogen sulfide, as well as volatile fatty acids and ammonia. The model includes multiple-reaction stoichiometry, microbial growth kinetics and conventional material balances for an ideally mixed reactor. Simulations that were performed with the model revealed that changes in common operational parameters such as temperature, HRT and sludge metal content can dramatically impact upon the gas phase concentrations of odourants. Additional research is required to reduce uncertainty in the model formulation.

Variable stoichiometry with thermodynamic control in ADM1.The effect of a variable stoichiometry of the carbohydrate fermentation process in the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 (ADM1) is investigated. Most existing anaerobic digestion models including ADM1 consider a fixed-stoichiometry for their conversion processes. The ADM1 model was first transformed into an only mol based model to remove some errors derived from the mixed COD-mol based standard model and to allow for implementation of the variable stoichiometry. Consequently, the values of the butyrate and acetate catabolic yields of carbohydrate fermentation are made dependent on the hydrogen concentration and the reactor pH according to the predictions of a recently developed mixed culture fermentation model based on thermodynamic considerations. The simulation results obtained showed no significantly different responses in terms of effluent quality and system robustness between the standard and the variable stoichiometry ADM1 under overload conditions, and for both single- and two-step anaerobic digestion configurations. This behaviour is explained by the non-limiting acetogenic activity that compensated for the changes in the acidogenic products, typical behaviour for serial processes close to equilibrium. Based on the results obtained, thermodynamic rather than kinetic control for these conversions is suggested. Depending on the objectives to be met, lumping of carbohydrate fermenters and oxidative acetogens into a single biomass group with a variable stoichiometry is proposed for further consideration.

ADM1 application for tuning and performance analysis of a multi-model observer-based estimator.Anaerobic digestion model no.1 (ADM1) was used for tuning and performance analysis of the multi-model observer based estimator (mmOBE). The mmOBE was based on the variable structure model (VSM) of the anaerobic digestion model, which consists of several local submodels, each of which describes a typical process state. Depending on the hydraulic retention time, ADM1 simulated the methanogenic, organic overload, and acidogenic states of the process. These simulations allowed for optimising tunable parameters of the mmOBE. Owing to relatively slow process dynamics, a data acquisition interval as large as one day was sufficient to obtain acceptable accuracy. The simulations of mmOBE performance showed excellent rate of mmOBE convergence to ADM1 outputs. Moreover, mmOBE successfully estimated key kinetic parameters, such as maximal transformation rates of CODs, VFAs, and methane. These estimations can be used in the development of the advanced knowledge-based process system, which uses both available measurements and estimations of key kinetic parameters for extended diagnosis of failures and process trend analysis.

An approach for substrate mapping between ASM and ADM1 for sludge digestion.Kinetic modelling of the hydrolysis stage of municipal activated sludge, which is presumed to be the rate-limiting step in the anaerobic sludge digestion process, was studied by measuring methane production rate (MPR) in anaerobic batch tests. The MPR curves revealed that the degradable organic components in municipal sludge could be classified into two fractions having different kinetics. The first fraction (XS1) constituted about 55% of the sludge COD and degraded with first-order kinetics. The second fraction (XS2), which degraded during the initial phase, accounted for about 21% of sludge COD. The degradation kinetics for XS2 was expressed by Contois-type equation with respect to concentration of substrate in the fed sludge and that of active biomass in the mixture. Simultaneous batch aerobic respirometric tests showed that the activated sludge was composed of 53% heterotrophic biomass (XH-Aerobe) COD and 20% of slowly biodegradable COD (XS), that had same kinetic expressions as observed in the batch anaerobic tests. The observed correlation between substrate fractions suggests XS1 and XS2 could be directly mapped to the aerobic state variables of XH-Aerobe and Xs respectively. The degradation of XS1 seems to be anaerobic decay of XH-Aerobe while XS2 is thought to be hydrolysis of XS by microcosm of the sludge.

Description of nitrogen incorporation and release in ADM1.ADM1 represents a universally applicable biokinetic model for the mathematical description of anaerobic digestion of different types of organic substrates. Digestion of particulate composites is described as a five-stage process involving disintegration, hydrolysis, acidogenesis, acetogenesis and methanogenesis, of which the last three process steps are represented by growth kinetics of the specific degrading biomass. Decay of the produced biomass according to ADM1 is depicted by a recycle mass flux to the composite particulate substrate. Consequently two different actions are lumped into one process describing both conversion of feed substrate (depending primarily on influent characterisation) and generation of decay products (depending on digestion performance). In this presentation the introduction of a separate compound of inert decay products in analogy to ASM1 is suggested. Model calibration of separately monitored digestion of primary and secondary sludge (nitrogen content 0.030 g N/g TSS and 0.051 g N/g TSS, respectively) reveals the advantage of a clear distinction of disintegration and decay. The fate of nitrogen in the course of incorporation and release (0.016 g N/g TSS compared to 0.028 g N/g TSS) during digestion processes is comprehensible and the final ammonia concentration in the rejection water becomes predictable.

Critical analysis of some concepts proposed in ADM1.The Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) has been developed by the expert task group of the IWA to establish a common platform for simulation of a wide variety of anaerobic degradation processes. It enables comparison of different methods and parameter values for description of specific sub-processes, with the methods and default values proposed by the task group. This will hopefully stimulate a more structured discussion on anaerobic digestion modelling compared to the recent past, when many different researchers developed a slightly different model and it remained largely unclear what could, and what could not be compared. In this paper we take the liberty to criticize some aspects of ADM1 and its implementation, as we think they represent concepts that are too easily extrapolated from activated sludge models. The specific subjects discussed here are the COD-based description of the reaction stoichiometry (i), the widely adopted use of a constant value for the solid retention time high-rate anaerobic bioreactors (ii), and the kinetic description of the acetogenic reactions as proposed in ADM1 (iii).

An extension of the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 to include the effect of nitrate reduction processes.Nitrate reduction processes were incorporated into the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) in order to account for the effect of such processes on fermentation and methanogenesis. The general structure of the ADM1 was not changed except for modifications related to disintegration and hydrolysis of complex organic matter and decayed biomass. A fraction of butyrate/valerate and propionate degraders was assumed to be the fermentative denitrifiers carrying out fermentation in the absence of N-oxides. Nitrate reduction proceeded in a stepwise manner to nitrite, nitric oxide, nitrous oxide and nitrogen gas using four substrates as electron and/or carbon source. The utilization of the four substrates and N-oxides was based on stoichiometry and kinetics. The inhibitory effect of N-oxides on the methanogens was accounted for by the use of non-competitive inhibition functions. Model simulations were compared with experimental data obtained with a batch, mixed fermenting and methanogenic culture amended with various initial nitrate concentrations.

Implementing ADM1 for plant-wide benchmark simulations in Matlab/Simulink.The IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 (ADM1) was presented in 2002 and is expected to represent the state-of-the-art model within this field in the future. Due to its complexity the implementation of the model is not a simple task and several computational aspects need to be considered, in particular if the ADM1 is to be included in dynamic simulations of plant-wide or even integrated systems. In this paper, the experiences gained from a Matlab/Simulink implementation of ADM1 into the extended COST/IWA Benchmark Simulation Model (BSM2) are presented. Aspects related to system stiffness, model interfacing with the ASM family, mass balances, acid-base equilibrium and algebraic solvers for pH and other troublesome state variables, numerical solvers and simulation time are discussed. The main conclusion is that if implemented properly, the ADM1 will also produce high-quality results in dynamic plant-wide simulations including noise, discrete sub-systems, etc. without imposing any major restrictions due to extensive computational efforts.

A review of ADM1 extensions, applications, and analysis: 2002-2005.Since publication of the Scientific and Technical Report (STR) describing the ADM1, the model has been extensively used, and analysed in both academic and practical applications. Adoption of the ADM1 in popular systems analysis tools such as the new wastewater benchmark (BSM2), and its use as a virtual industrial system can stimulate modelling of anaerobic processes by researchers and practitioners outside the core expertise of anaerobic processes. It has been used as a default structural element that allows researchers to concentrate on new extensions such as sulfate reduction, and new applications such as distributed parameter modelling of biofilms. The key limitations for anaerobic modelling originally identified in the STR were: (i) regulation of products from glucose fermentation, (ii) parameter values, and variability, and (iii) specific extensions. Parameter analysis has been widespread, and some detailed extensions have been developed (e.g., sulfate reduction). A verified extension that describes regulation of products from glucose fermentation is still limited, though there are promising fundamental approaches. This is a critical issue, given the current interest in renewable hydrogen production from carbohydrate-type waste. Critical analysis of the model has mainly focused on model structure reduction, hydrogen inhibition functions, and the default parameter set recommended in the STR. This default parameter set has largely been verified as a reasonable compromise, especially for wastewater sludge digestion. One criticism of note is that the ADM1 stoichiometry focuses on catabolism rather than anabolism. This means that inorganic carbon can be used unrealistically as a carbon source during some anabolic reactions. Advances and novel applications have also been made in the present issue, which focuses on the ADM1. These papers also explore a number of novel areas not originally envisaged in this review.

Tigecycline does not induce proliferation or cytotoxin production by epidemic Clostridium difficile strains in a human gut model.Data on the risk of Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) associated with specific antibiotics are difficult to obtain because of confounding clinical factors. It is particularly important to evaluate the propensity of new antibiotics to induce CDI. We have examined the propensity of tigecycline to induce CDI using a human gut model.
We used a three-stage chemostat human gut model to study the effects of tigecycline on indigenous gut microflora and C. difficile. Two epidemic C. difficile were studied in separate experiments: PCR ribotype 001 (UK, CD001) and PCR ribotype 027 (North America, CD027). Tigecycline MICs for 39 C. difficile representing 19 distinct PCR ribotypes were also determined.
Tigecycline MICs were 0.06 mg/L for all the C. difficile strains. Peak tigecycline concentrations in the gut model were 10.9 and 11.7 mg/L in CD027 and CD001 experiments, respectively. Tigecycline instillation invoked marked decreases in numbers of bacteroides and bifidobacteria (10(7)-10(8) cfu/mL) and lesser reductions in facultative anaerobes. Despite markedly altered gut microflora, CD001 and CD027 remained as spores for the duration of the experiment, with no evidence of proliferation or cytotoxin production.
Tigecycline exposure did not induce C. difficile proliferation or cytotoxin production despite reduced competing microflora. The potency of tigecycline against C. difficile may contribute to the low risk of CDI induction. Factors other than gut microflora colonization resistance may be important in preventing C. difficile spore germination, proliferation and cytotoxin production.

Biosorption of cadmium by various types of dried sludge: an equilibrium study and investigation of mechanisms.Batch equilibrium sorption experiments were used for screening for cost-effective four types of sludge, which were DWS (drinking water treatment plant sludge), LLS (landfill leachate sludge), ADSS (anaerobically digested sewage sludge), and SS (sewage sludge). SS removed cadmium most efficiently from aqueous solution (0.38 mmol/g), and showed the highest desorption efficiency (26.3%). Only the SS can be fitted by Langmuir isotherm model (r2 = 0.996). The FT-IR spectra of SS and cadmium loaded SS indicated that carboxyl groups were major binding sites of cadmium binding sites. In kinetic experiment, it was found that the uptake of the metal by the SS was accompanied with proton release, indicating that the metal binding occurs via an ion exchange as well as by electrostatic interaction between carboxylate groups and cadmium ions. This sorbent may have a potential for use as high-value biosorbent of heavy metals and it deserves further investigations into the details of practical application, for example on the development of desorption methods and on sorption process optimization.

Influence of the amount of dietary fiber on the available energy from hindgut fermentation in growing pigs: use of cannulated pigs and in vitro fermentation.Available energy from hindgut fermentation to pigs fed various amounts of dietary fiber was investigated using an in vivo-in vitro methodology. Six growing pigs fitted with a simple T-shaped cannula at the terminal ileum, and following a Latin-square design, were fed 3 diets differing in the content of non-starch polysaccharides (NSP): a low fiber diet (LFD, 77 g/kg of DM), a standard fiber diet (SFD, 160 g/kg of DM), and a high fiber diet (HFD, 240 g/kg of DM). After adaptation to the diet for 10 d, samples from feces and ileum were collected and analyzed for DM, energy, NSP, and chromic oxide; feces were also analyzed for short chain fatty acids (SCFA). Freeze-dried ileal samples (10 g/L) were fermented in vitro in a fecal slurry consisting of an anaerobic mineral salt medium and feces (50 g/L) from cannulated pigs fed the same diets. Available energy was calculated from the amount of SCFA produced in vitro after 48 h of incubation. Nonstarch polysaccharide content in the fermented material was measured to assess the in vitro degradation of this fraction. Increasing dietary NSP from 77 to 240 g/kg of feed DM increased (P < 0.001) ileal flow from 199 to 468 g/kg of feed, leading to a reduction in the energy digested at the terminal ileum, from 15 to 11 MJ/kg of feed DM and an increment in energy digested in the hindgut, from 1.6 to 3.5 MJ/kg of feed DM. Total in vitro production of SCFA/kg of feed DM was dependent on the amount of ileal substrate available for fermentation; that is, increased concentrations of NSP in the diet led to an increase in the SCFA that may be available to the animal (P < 0.001). The molar ratio of SCFA produced in vitro was affected by diet; the high fiber diet showed the greatest (P = 0.004) proportion of acetic acid, and the low fiber diet showed a tendency (P = 0.081) to an increased butyric acid proportion compared with the other 2 diets. Net disappearance of NSP during fermentation in vivo and in vitro were compared and showed a close relationship (P < 0.001, slope = 0.906, r = 0.960). In our experimental conditions, available energy as SCFA to the animal from hindgut fermentation increased with the concentration of dietary NSP (P < 0.001) and provided between 7.1 and 17.6% of the total available energy.

Process modeling and analysis of palm oil mill effluent treatment in an up-flow anaerobic sludge fixed film bioreactor using response surface methodology (RSM).In this study, the interactive effects of feed flow rate (QF) and up-flow velocity (V up) on the performance of an up-flow anaerobic sludge fixed film (UASFF) reactor treating palm oil mill effluent (POME) were investigated. Long-term performance of the UASFF reactor was first examined with raw POME at a hydraulic loading rate (HRT) of 3 d and an influent COD concentration of 44300 mg/l. Extreme reactor instability was observed after 25 d. Raw POME was then chemically pretreated and used as feed. Anaerobic digestion of pretreated POME was modeled and analyzed with two operating variables, i.e. feed flow rate and up-flow velocity. Experiments were conducted based on a central composite face-centered design (CCFD) and analyzed using response surface methodology (RSM). The region of exploration for digestion of the pretreated POME was taken as the area enclosed by the feed flow rate (1.01, 7.63 l/d) and up-flow velocity (0.2, 3 m/h) boundaries. Twelve dependent parameters were either directly measured or calculated as response. These parameters were total COD (TCOD) removal, soluble COD (SCOD) removal, effluent pH, effluent total volatile fatty acid (TVFA), effluent bicarbonate alkalinity (BA), effluent total suspended solids (TSS), CH4 percentage in biogas, methane yield (Y M), specific methanogenic activity (SMA), food-to-sludge ratio (F/M), sludge height in the UASB portion and solid retention time (SRT). The optimum conditions for POME treatment were found to be 2.45 l/d and 0.75 m/h for QF and V up, respectively (corresponding to HRT of 1.5 d and recycle ratio of 23.4:1). The present study provides valuable information about interrelations of quality and process parameters at different values of the operating variables.

Methane production through anaerobic digestion of various energy crops grown in sustainable crop rotations.Biogas production is of major importance for the sustainable use of agrarian biomass as renewable energy source. Economic biogas production depends on high biogas yields. The project aimed at optimising anaerobic digestion of energy crops. The following aspects were investigated: suitability of different crop species and varieties, optimum time of harvesting, specific methane yield and methane yield per hectare. The experiments covered 7 maize, 2 winter wheat, 2 triticale varieties, 1 winter rye, and 2 sunflower varieties and 6 variants with permanent grassland. In the course of the vegetation period, biomass yield and biomass composition were measured. Anaerobic digestion was carried out in eudiometer batch digesters. The highest methane yields of 7500-10200 m(N)(3)ha(-1) were achieved from maize varieties with FAO numbers (value for the maturity of the maize) of 300 to 600 harvested at "wax ripeness". Methane yields of cereals ranged from 3200 to 4500 m(N)(3)ha(-1). Cereals should be harvested at "grain in the milk stage" to "grain in the dough stage". With sunflowers, methane yields between 2600 and 4550 m(N)(3)ha(-1) were achieved. There were distinct differences between the investigated sunflower varieties. Alpine grassland can yield 2700-3500 m(N)(3)CH(4)ha(-1). The methane energy value model (MEVM) was developed for the different energy crops. It estimates the specific methane yield from the nutrient composition of the energy crops. Energy crops for biogas production need to be grown in sustainable crop rotations. The paper outlines possibilities for optimising methane yield from versatile crop rotations that integrate the production of food, feed, raw materials and energy. These integrated crop rotations are highly efficient and can provide up to 320 million t COE which is 96% of the total energy demand of the road traffic of the EU-25 (the 25 Member States of the European Union).

Selective desorption of carbon dioxide from sewage sludge for in situ methane enrichment--part I: pilot-plant experiments.In situ methane enrichment in anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge has been investigated by experiments and by modeling. In this first part, the experimental work on the desorption of carbon dioxide and methane from sewage sludge is reported. The bubble column, had a diameter of 0.3 m and a variable height up to 1.8 m. At operation the dispersion height in the column was between 1 and 1.3 m. Outdoor air was used. The column was placed close to a full-scale sewage sludge digester, at a municipal wastewater treatment plant. The digester was operated at mesophilic conditions with a hydraulic retention time of about 20 days. The bubble column was operated to steady-state, at which carbon dioxide concentration and alkalinity were determined on the liquid side, and the concentration of carbon dioxide and methane on the gas side. Thirty-eight experiments were performed at various liquid and gas flow rates. The experimental results show that the desorption rates achieved for carbon dioxide ranges from 0.07 to 0.25 m(3) CO(2)/m(3) sludge per day, which is comparable to the rate of generation by the anaerobic digestion. With increasing liquid flow rate and decreasing gas flow rate the amount of methane desorbed per amount of carbon dioxide desorbed increases. The lowest methane loss achieved is approximately 2% of the estimated methane production in the digestion process.

Macroscopic mass and energy balance of a pilot plant anaerobic bioreactor operated under thermophilic conditions.Intensive poultry production generates over 100,000 t of litter annually in West Virginia and 9 x 10(6) t nationwide. Current available technological alternatives based on thermophilic anaerobic digestion for residuals treatment are diverse. A modification of the typical continuous stirred tank reactor is a promising process being relatively stable and owing to its capability to manage considerable amounts of residuals at low operational cost. A 40-m3 pilot plant digester was used for performance evaluation considering energy input and methane production. Results suggest some changes to the pilot plant configuration are necessary to reduce power consumption although maximizing biodigester performance.

Multidimensional modelling to investigate interspecies hydrogen transfer in anaerobic biofilms.Anaerobic digestion is a multistep process, mediated by a functionally and phylogenetically diverse microbial population. One of the crucial steps is oxidation of organic acids, with electron transfer via hydrogen or formate from acetogenic bacteria to methanogens. This syntrophic microbiological process is strongly restricted by a thermodynamic limitation on the allowable hydrogen or formate concentration. In order to study this process in more detail, we developed an individual-based biofilm model which enables to describe the processes at a microbial resolution. The biochemical model is the ADM1, implemented in a multidimensional domain. With this model, we evaluated three important issues for the syntrophic relationship: (i) Is there a fundamental difference in using hydrogen or formate as electron carrier? (ii) Does a thermodynamic-based inhibition function produced substantially different results from an empirical function? and; (iii) Does the physical co-location of acetogens and methanogens follow directly from a general model. Hydrogen or formate as electron carrier had no substantial impact on model results. Standard inhibition functions or thermodynamic inhibition function gave similar results at larger substrate field grid sizes (> 10 microm), but at smaller grid sizes, the thermodynamic-based function reduced the number of cells with long interspecies distances (> 2.5 microm). Therefore, a very fine grid resolution is needed to reflect differences between the thermodynamic function, and a more generic inhibition form. The co-location of syntrophic bacteria was well predicted without a need to assume a microbiological based mechanism (e.g., through chemotaxis) of biofilm formation.

Integrated chemical--physical processes kinetic modelling of multiple mineral precipitation problems.A three-phase (aqueous/gas/solid) mixed weak acid/base chemistry kinetic model is applied to evaluate the processes operative in the aeration treatment of swine wastewater (SWW) and sewage sludge anaerobic digester liquor (ADL). In both applications, with a single set of constants (except for the aeration rates which are situation specific), close correlation could be obtained between predicted and measured data, except for the Ca concentration-time profile in the SWW. For this wastewater, the model application highlighted an inconsistency in the measured Ca data which could not be resolved; this illustrates the value of a mass balance-based model in evaluating experimental data. From the model applications, in both wastewaters the dominant minerals precipitating are struvite and amorphous calcium phosphate (ACP), which precipitate simultaneously competing for the same species, P. The absolute and relative masses of the two precipitants are governed by the initial solution state (e.g. total inorganic C (C(T)), Mg, Ca and P concentrations), their relative precipitation rates (struvite > ACP) and the system conditions imposed (aeration rates and time applied). It is concluded that the kinetic model is able to predict correctly the time-dependent weak acid/base chemistry reactions and final equilibrium state for situations where multiple minerals competing for the same species precipitate simultaneously or sequentially, a deficiency in traditional equilibrium chemistry-based algebraic models.

New three-stage in vitro model for infant colonic fermentation with immobilized fecal microbiota.The development and validation of a new three-stage culture system with immobilized fecal microbiota to simulate infant colonic ecosystem is described. Two continuous cultures with different fecal inocula were used to assess the validity and stability of the intestinal model. The total anaerobe populations measured in beads and effluent fermentations reached high concentrations similar to infant feces. Fluorescence in situ hybridization analyses and denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profiles of effluent samples from the three reactors revealed complex patterns similar to that observed in the inoculum, indicating that fecal bacterial diversity was well-preserved and that dominant bacterial populations showed good stability among reactors. For both experiments, the bacterial populations and fermentation product concentrations were in the range of published data for infant feces. These results demonstrate that this new three-stage continuous culture with immobilized cells provides a useful tool for studying the infant colon ecosystem.

Influences of enteral nutrition combined with probiotics on gut microflora and barrier function of rats with abdominal infection.To investigate the influences of enteral, parenteral nutrition and probiotics delivered by gut on intestinal microecology, epithelial tight junctions, immune and barrier function of rats with abdominal infection.
Rat abdominal infection models established with cecal ligation and perforation method, were divided into three groups: parenteral nutrition (PN group, n = 7), PN+enteral nutrition (EN group, n = 7) and PN + EN + probiotics (probiotics group, n = 7) via the needle jejunostomy and neck vein for five days. The total nutritional supplement of the three groups was isonitrogenic and isocaloric. Probiotics was delivered by jejunostomy 10 mL/d (1 x 10(8) cfu/mL). The rats were killed on the sixth day. The feces in the cecum were cultured for anaerobic bacterial growth and analyzed with bacterial group DNA fingerprint profile with random amplified polymorphic DNA. The transmembrane binding proteins (occludin) and IgA level in plasma cells of intestine epithelium in colon and terminal ileum were measured by an immunohistochemistry method. The ultrastructure of intestinal epithelial tight junctions in colon and small intestine was observed by electron-microscopy. Vena cava blood and the homogenated tissue of liver, lung and mesenteric lymph nodes were cultured to determine the bacterial translocations, and endotoxin in the blood from portal vein was detected.
(1) The amount of bacteria of gut species in EN group and probiotic group was higher than that in PN group. The DNA-profiles in EN group and probiotic group were similar to that of normal rats. The number of DNA-profiles in probiotics group was much more than that in PN group and EN group. Moreover, there were strange stripes in PN group. (2) The expression of occludin and IgA in the small and large intestine in EN group (2.309 +/- 0.336, 15.440 +/- 2.383) and probiotic group (2.938 +/- 0.515, 16.230 +/- 3.183) was improved as compared with PN group (1.207 +/- 0.587, P < 0.05, 11.189 +/- 2.108, P < 0.01). The expression of occludin in probiotic group (intestine: 2.93 +/- 0.515; cecum: 3.40 +/- 0.617) was higher than that in EN group (intestine: 2.309 +/- 0.336; cecum: 2.076 +/- 0.670; P < 0.05). The expression of IgA, especially in EN group (intestine: 15.440 +/- 2.383) and probiotic EN group (large intestine: 12.516 +/- 1.542) significantly increased as compared with PN group (intestine: 11.189 +/- 2.108; cecum: 10.160 +/- 1.643; P<0.01). The intestinal epithelial tight junctions and microvilli of the probiotic group were more intact than those in the PN group. (3) The bacterial translocations in blood, liver, lung and mesenteric lymph nodes, and the levels of endotoxin were significantly reduced in probiotic (0.082 +/- 0.029) and EN (0.125 +/- 0.040) groups as compared with PN group (0.403 +/- 0.181, P < 0.05).
Application of EN combined with probiotics could improve the expression of transmembrane binding proteins (occludin) and IgA, correct the intestinal flora disturbance, maintain gut barrier functions and tight junctions, and reduce the occurrence of gut bacterial translocation.

Optimizing the use of sludge treatment facilities at municipal WWTPs.Sludge treatment and disposal are very important cost factors in the scope of municipal wastewater treatment. Therefore ways should be sought to reduce the sludge treatment costs and/or to increase the benefit of the treatment facilities by using them for other applications. This paper gives an overview of possible pathways of sludge treatment including disposal or reuse, particularly with respect to costs. Finally, the benefits and constraints of optimizing the use of anaerobic digesters as production plants for energy (as biogas), also by means of co-fermentation of organic wastes will be explained.

Implementation of the IWA anaerobic digestion model No.1 (ADM1) for simulating digestion of blackwater from vacuum toilets.The IWA anaerobic digestion model No.1 (ADM1) is applied to the blackwater anaerobic digestion (BWAD) plant in this work. In order to verify the biochemical kinetics, batch experiments were executed. According to the Monod type kinetics, the maximum uptake rates (km) of butyric acid (HBu), propionic acid (HPr) and acetic acid (HAc) are testified as 18, 14, 13 d(-1), and their half saturation concentrations (Ks) are 110, 120, 160 g COD/m3, respectively. Afterwards, the model was calibrated based on the performance of a laboratory scale BWAD plant (under mesophilic conditions) by three scenario studies, i.e. the reference conditions, different feeding frequencies and high NH4+ concentration. The model successfully simulated three scenarios. The further two virtual scenario studies were achieved based on the calibrated model. First, the performance of BWAD plant was predicted with different hydraulic retention times (HRT); second, the kitchen refuse (KR) was added into the BWAD plant as additional organic loading. The model predicted the perspective of BW plus KR digestion and generated valuable suggestions for the operation of the real BWAD plant.

Anaerobic digestion potential for ecological and decentralised sanitation in urban areas.The potential of anaerobic digestion in ecological and decentralised sanitation has been investigated in this research. Different anaerobic digestion systems were proposed for the treatment of sewage, grey water, black water and faeces. Moreover, mathematical models based on anaerobic digestion model no.1 (ADM1) were developed for determination of a suitable design for each system. For stable performance of an upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor treating sewage, the model results indicated that optimisation of wastewater conversion to biogas (not COD removal) should be selected for determination of the hydraulic retention time (HRT) of the reactor. For the treatment of sewage or black water in a UASB septic-tank, the model results showed that the sludge removal period was the main parameter for determination of the HRT. At such HRT, both COD removal and wastewater conversion are also optimised. The model results demonstrated that for treatment of faeces in an accumulation (AC) system at temperature > or = 25 degrees C, the filling period of the system should be higher than 60 days. For maximisation of the net biogas production (i.e. reduction of biogas losses as dissolved in the effluent), the separation between grey water, urine and faeces and reduction of water consumption for faeces flushing are required. Furthermore, the faeces and kitchen organic wastes and grey water are digested in, respectively, an AC system and UASB reactor, while the urine is stored.

Comparison of antagonistic ability against enteropathogens by G+ and G- anaerobic dominant components of human fecal microbiota.To confirm if anaerobic G+-components are those responsible for the function of colonization resistance, obligate anaerobic G+- and G- -bacteria from normal dominant microbiota of human feces were isolated from three successive collections and then used in in vitro assays for antagonism against two enteropathogenic bacteria. The production of inhibitory diffusible compounds was determined on supplemented BHI agar and MRS agar media for G- - and G+-bacteria, respectively. Salmonella enterica subsp. enterica serovar Typhimurium and Shigella sonnei were used as indicators. G+-bacteria presented a higher overall antagonistic frequency against both pathogenic bacteria (57 and 64 % for S. enterica serovar Typhimurium and S. sonnei, respectively) when compared to G+-microorganisms but with a quite elevated variation between volunteers (0-100 %) and collection samples (40-72 and 40-80 % for S. enterica sv. Typhimurium and S. sonnei, respectively). On the other hand, only three among 143 G- -isolates tested showed antagonistic activity. The results showed that, at least in vitro, obligate anaerobic G+-components of the dominant human fecal microbiota present a higher potential for antagonism against the enteropathogenic models tested than do G- -bacteria.

The molecular basis of lactose intolerance.A staggering 4000 million people cannot digest lactose, the sugar in milk, properly. All mammals, apart from white Northern Europeans and few tribes in Africa and Asia, lose most of their lactase, the enzyme that cleaves lactose into galactose and glucose, after weaning. Lactose intolerance causes gut and a range of systemic symptoms, though the threshold to lactose varies considerably between ethnic groups and individuals within a group. The molecular basis of inherited hypolactasia has yet to be identified, though two polymorphisms in the introns of a helicase upstream from the lactase gene correlate closely with hypolactasia, and thus lactose intolerance. The symptoms of lactose intolerance are caused by gases and toxins produced by anaerobic bacteria in the large intestine. Bacterial toxins may play a key role in several other diseases, such as diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis and some cancers. The problem of lactose intolerance has been exacerbated because of the addition of products containing lactose to various foods and drinks without being on the label. Lactose intolerance fits exactly the illness that Charles Darwin suffered from for over 40 years, and yet was never diagnosed. Darwin missed something else--the key to our own evolution--the Rubicon some 300 million years ago that produced lactose and lactase in sufficient amounts to be susceptible to natural selection.

Kinetics and dynamic modelling of batch anaerobic digestion of municipal solid waste in a stirred reactor.A series of batch, slurry anaerobic digestion experiments were performed where the soluble and insoluble fractions, and unwashed MSW were separately digested in a 200l stirred stainless steel vessel at a pH of 7.2 and a temperature of 38 degrees C. It was found that 7% of the total MSW COD was readily soluble, of which 80% was converted to biogas; 50% of the insoluble fraction was solubilised, of this only 80% was converted to biogas. The rate of digesting the insoluble fraction was about four times slower than the rate of digesting the soluble fraction; 48% of the total COD was converted to biogas and 40% of the total nitrogen was converted to ammonia. Soluble and insoluble fractions were broken down simultaneously. The minimum time to convert 95% of the degradable fraction to biogas was 20 days. The lag phase for the degradation of insoluble fraction of MSW can be overcome by acclimatising the culture with the soluble fraction. The rate of digestion and the methane yield was not affected by particle size (within the range of 2-50mm). A dynamic model was developed to describe batch digestion of MSW. The parameters of the model were estimated using data from the separate digestion of soluble and insoluble fractions and validated against data from the digestion of unwashed MSW. Trends in the specific aceticlastic and formate-utilising methanogenic activity were used to estimate initial methanogenic biomass concentration and bacterial death rate coefficient. The kinetics of hydrolysis of insoluble fraction could be adequately described by a Contois equation and the kinetics of acidogenesis, and aceticlastic and hydrogen utilising methanogenesis by Monod equations.

Increased hepatic gluconeogenesis: the secret of Lance Armstrong's success.Enormous amounts of lactic acid are produced during endurance sport by muscle cells. This metabolite is thought responsible for the muscle pain and the fatigue during sport. Its internal removal from the body by enzymatic conversion depends mainly on the capacity of the hepatic gluconeogenesis that converts lactic acid to glucose. The extraordinary sportive results of the racing cyclist Lance Armstrong did us realize that a high capacity of hepatic gluconeogenesis was the basis of his success, because it might have provided him with less pain complaints caused by lactic acid and with an extra source of energy from lactic acid. This enhanced gluconeogenesis can be due to his heavy training program. At the age of 12-13 years he daily swam 10,000m and cycled 32km. In later years as cyclist his training labour was also more than normal. A constitutional increased gluconeogenesis cannot be excluded, because as a boy of 12 years he became already fourth in 1500m free style swimming in a contest for swimmers from whole Texas. The last argument for an increased gluconeogenesis is that Armstrong in October 1996 suffered from an extensively disseminated testicular tumour. This large tumour load caused that in the tumour the oxidative (=aerobic) energy generation changed into a fermentative (=anaerobic) one. This resulted in a high increase of lactic acid that putted up the gluconeogenesis in the liver. We think that this stimulated, high level gluconeogenesis remained high in the following years, when Armstrong restarted cycling, that it provided him with extra energy from lactic acid and with fewer complaints due to the exercise, and that thus this was the basis of his success.

Thermophilic anaerobic fermentation of olive pulp for hydrogen and methane production: modelling of the anaerobic digestion process.The present study investigates the thermophilic biohydrogen and methane production from olive pulp, which is the semi-solid residue coming from the two-phase processing of olives. It focussed on: a) production of methane from the raw olive pulp; b) anaerobic bio-production of hydrogen from the olive pulp; c) subsequent anaerobic treatment of the hydrogen-effluent with the simultaneous production of methane; and d) development of a mathematical model able to describe the anaerobic digestion of the olive pulp and the effluent of hydrogen producing process. Both continuous and batch experiments were performed. The hydrogen potential of the olive pulp amounted to 1.6 mmole H2 per g TS. The methane potential of the raw olive pulp and hydrogen-effluent was as high as 19 mmole CH4 per g TS suggesting that: a) olive pulp is a suitable substrate for methane production; and b) biohydrogen production can be very efficiently coupled with a subsequent step for methane production.

Influence of staging, mean cell residence time, and thermophilic temperature on the thermophilic anaerobic digestion process.As Class B biosolids land application has become less acceptable to many local jurisdictions, low-cost processes to achieve Class A standards have become more popular. Prominent among these low-cost processes is thermophilic anaerobic digestion. As a result, thermophilic anaerobic digestion is now a popular topic in wastewater treatment literature, but quantifiable methods for selecting a particular thermophilic process have not been offered. To provide for this need, an empirical model was developed from data collected in thermophilic anaerobic digestion studies conducted using East Bay Municipal Utility District's (Oakland, California) primary and waste activated sludge to feed both bench- and full-scale digesters. The model predicts at which thermophilic temperature and mean cell residence time (MCRT) one process will outperform or equal another, with respect to fecal coliform reduction. The different disinfection efficiencies in the different thermophilic processes might be explained by the presence or absence of high volatile acid and/or un-ionized ammonia levels in the processes' digested sludges. Data from these studies also show an apparent relationship between increased thermophilic temperatures and volatile solids destruction, and between increased temperatures and specific volatile acids production, for digesters operating at a 13-day MCRT and higher, but not for digesters operating at a 2-day MCRT.

Solutions to a combined problem of excessive hydrogen sulfide in biogas and struvite scaling.The Woodman Point Wastewater Treatment Plant (WWTP) in Western Australia has experienced two separate problems causing avoidable maintenance costs: the build-up of massive struvite (MgNH4PO4. 6H2O) scaling downstream of the anaerobic digester and the formation of hydrogen sulfide (H2S) levels in the digester gas to levels that compromised gas engine operation and caused high operating costs on the gas scrubber. As both problems hang together with a chemical imbalance in the anaerobic digester, we decided to investigate whether both problems could be (feasibly and economically) addressed by a common solution (such as dosing of iron solutions to precipitate both sulfide and phosphate), or by using separate approaches. Laboratory results showed that, the hydrogen sulfide emission in digesters could be effectively and economically controlled by the addition of iron dosing. Slightly higher than the theoretical value of 1.5 mol of FeCl3 was required to precipitate 1 mol of dissolved sulfide inside the digester. Due to the high concentration of PO4(3-) in the digested sludge liquor, significantly higher iron is required for struvite precipitation. Iron dosing did not appear an economic solution for struvite control via iron phosphate formation. By taking advantage of the natural tendency of struvite formation in the digester liquid, it is possible to reduce the risk of struvite precipitation in and around the sludge-dewatering centrifuge by increasing the pH to precipitate struvite out before passing through the centrifuge. However, as the Mg2+/PO4(3-) molar ratio in digested sludge was low, by increasing the pH alone (using NaOH) the precipitation of PO4(3-) was limited by the amount of cations (Ca2+ and Mg2+) available in the sludge. Although this would reduce struvite precipitation in the centrifuge, it could not significantly reduce PO4(3-) recycling back to the plant. For long-term operation, maximum PO4(3-) reduction should be the ultimate aim to minimise PO4(3-) accumulation in the plant. Magnesium hydroxide liquid (MHL) was found to be the most cost-effective chemical to achieve this goal. It enhanced struvite precipitation from both, digested sludge and centrate to the point where more than 95% PO4(3-) reduction in the digested sludge was achieved.

On-line estimation of kinetic parameters in anaerobic digestion using observer-based estimators and multiwavelength fluorometry.Observer-based estimators (OBE) were used for estimation of state variables and kinetic parameters in an anaerobic digestion (AD) process. A simplified first-order model with time-varying kinetic parameters was used to design an OBE for kinetic parameter estimation. This approach was validated on a laboratory-scale anaerobic reactor equipped with a multiwavelength fluorometer for on-line measurements of COD and VFA concentrations in the reactor effluent. The proposed estimators provide continuous adjustment of kinetic parameters and can be used for predictions of state variables between samples acquisition and during sensor failure.

Lessons learnt from 15 years of ICA in anaerobic digesters.Anaerobic digestion plants are highly efficient wastewater treatment processes with inherent energy production. Despite these advantages, many industries are still reluctant to use them because of their instability confronted with changes in operating conditions. There is therefore great potential for application of instrumentation, control and automation (ICA) in the field of anaerobic digestion. This paper will discuss the requirements (in terms of on-line sensors needed, modelling efforts and mathematical complexity) but also the advantages and drawbacks of different control strategies that have been applied to AD high rate processes over the last 15 years.

Metronidazole improves intestinal microcirculation in septic rats independently of bacterial burden.To explore the effects of metronidazole (Me) on intestinal microcirculation in septic rats, intravital microscopy (IVM) following 16 hours of colon ascendens stent peritonitis (CASP model) was used. Four groups of animals were studied: control group (sham operation) and CASP group, each with and without Me treatment (10 mg/kg i.v.). In order to investigate the substance-specific effects of Me independently of the antibacterial effects within a pathologically altered microcirculation, a second experimental series with lipopolysaccharide challenge (LPS model) was carried out. The LPS model consisted of the four groups (control animals and LPS animals (15 mg/kg i.v. LPS from E. coli) with and without Me). IVM in the LPS experiments was performed following a two hour observation period. Me treated CASP or LPS animals, as compared with untreated, demonstrated significant improvement of functional capillary density (FCD) of the intestinal wall. The increase in the number of leukocytes firmly adhered to the endothelium (leukocyte sticking) in the untreated CASP or LPS animals within the V1 venules of the intestinal submucosal layer, was significantly reduced in the Me treated animals. In conclusion, Me exerts beneficial anti-bacterial and anti-inflammatory effects within the septic microcirculation.

Methane production during storage of anaerobically digested municipal organic waste.Anaerobic digestion of source-separated municipal organic waste is considered feasible in Denmark. The limited hydraulic retention in the biogas reactor (typically 15 d) does not allow full degradation of the organic waste. Storage of anaerobically digested municipal organic waste can therefore be a source of methane (CH4) emission that may contribute significantly to the potential global warming impact from the waste treatment system. This study provides a model for quantifying the CH4 production from stored co-digested municipal organic waste and estimates the production under typical Danish climatic conditions, thus quantifying the potential global warming impact from storage of the digested municipal organic waste before its use on agricultural land. Laboratory batch tests on CH4 production as well as temperature measurements in eight full-scale storage tanks provided data for developing a model estimating the CH4 production in storage tanks containing digested municipal organic waste. The temperatures measured in separate storage tanks on farms receiving digested slurry were linearly correlated with air temperature. In storage tanks receiving slurry directly from biogas reactors, significantly higher temperatures were measured due to the high temperatures of the effluent from the reactor. Storage tanks on Danish farms are typically emptied in April and have a constant inflow of digested material. During the warmest months the content of digested material is therefore low, which limits the yearly CH4 production from storage.

Kinetic analysis of the anaerobic digestion of untreated vinasses and vinasses previously treated with Penicillium decumbens.A kinetic study was carried out on the anaerobic digestion of untreated vinasses and vinasses previously fermented with Penicillium decumbens. Two 1-l volume continuous-flow stirred tank reactors (CFSTR) operating at mesophilic temperature (35 degrees C) were used for the study. One reactor was fed with untreated vinasses (COD concentration of 80.5 g/l) and the other with vinasses previously fermented (COD concentration of 23.0 g/l). Both reactors were operated at organic loading rates in the range of 1.5-7.5 g chemical oxygen demand (COD)/l-d. The results obtained were evaluated using the Chen-Hashimoto methane production model to determine the values of the maximum specific growth rate (micromax) and the model kinetic constant (K) of the process for each case studied. The kinetic constants (micromax and K) were affected by the pre-treatment, and the respective values were 9.6 and 6.9 times higher for pretreated vinasses than those of untreated vinasses. This was significant at the 95% confidence level. This behaviour is believed to be due to the lower levels of phenolic compounds present in the pretreated vinasses, as compared to untreated vinasses, resulting in an improved process performance, kinetics and stability. Finally, the experimental values of methane production were reproduced with deviations equal to or less than 4% and 10% for pretreated and untreated vinasses, respectively.

Impact of ciprofloxacin in the human-flora-associated (HFA) rat model: comparison with the HFA mouse model.The ecological impact of different doses of ciprofloxacin was investigated in an experimental germ-free rat model into which human fecal flora was inoculated. Animals received oral doses (gavage) of 0, 0.25, 2.5, and 25 mg/kg body weight (bw) of ciprofloxacin once daily for 5 weeks. All doses of ciprofloxacin significantly reduced aerobic populations. Elimination of Enterobacteriaceae and reduction of bifodibacteria were noticed in the group treated with 25 mg/kg of the antibiotic. The rest of the intestinal flora was not affected. These effects were reversible after the treatment ended. The percentage of resistant enterococci increased in rats treated with 2.5 and 25 mg/kg; however, this increase was not statistically significant. There was a significant (P < 0.05) emergence of ciprofloxacin-resistant Bacteroides fragilis group with 25 mg/kg bw, which is equivalent to a human therapeutic dosage of the antibiotic. The MIC values and the percentage of resistance remained elevated 2 weeks after the end of treatment in this anaerobic population. Although sub-populations of enterococci and Enterobacteriaceae showed decreased susceptibility after ciprofloxacin administration, resistance was not evident. The ability of an exogenous strain of Salmonella to colonize the intestine of animals treated with 25 mg/kg of ciprofloxacin confirmed that the drug disrupted the colonization barrier effect of the indigenous flora at the high dose level tested. No changes in the metabolic parameters occurred during the antibiotic treatment. The results obtained in the HFA rat model were similar to those obtained in our previous study using the HFA mice model where ciprofloxacin at 0.125, 1.25, and 12.5 mg/kg bw induced a decrease of enterococci and Enterobacteriaceae populations. The high dose of ciprofloxacin also induced a decrease in bifidobacteria counts, an increase in levels of resistant B. fragilis group and a significant (P < 0.05) disruption of the colonization resistance of the barrier flora in HFA mice.

Anaerobic digestion of alfalfa silage with recirculation of process liquid.Process liquid recirculation initially stimulated one-phase anaerobic digestion of alfalfa silage in two semi-continuously fed and stirred tank reactors. Thus, with increased pH, alkalinity and stability it was possible to increase the organic loading rate to 3 g VS L(-1) d(-1), as compared to 2.25 g VS L(-1) d(-1) in a control reactor without recirculation. However, the recirculation of liquid eventually caused an accumulation of organic and inorganic substances, leading to an inhibition of hydrolysis and methanogenesis. This inhibition of microbial activity was prevented in one of the processes by replacing 50% of the recirculated process liquid with water during the second half of the operation period. A multiple linear regression model of principal components using seven input variables explained the variance in output variables nearly as well as the original model using all 23 measured input variables. The results show that it is necessary to adjust the degree of liquid recirculation to reach an optimal process.

Prediction of sulfide formation in sewer pressure mains based on the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1).In this paper a new approach is presented to predict sulfide formation in sewers based on the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1). Compared with existing models the ADM1 has two crucial advantages. Firstly, it simulates anaerobic digestion processes, of which sulfide formation is the final step. Secondly, it uses a more detailed description of the waste water composition. In order to obtain reliable data for calculation an experimental set-up for measuring the Oxygen Uptake Rate (OUR) is used. An implementation of sulfide formation processes into the model matrix is proposed.

Anaerobic digestion: a new model for plant-wide wastewater treatment process modelling.This paper describes a new anaerobic digestion model for wastewater treatment systems (MantisAD). The model has been developed specifically for plant-wide wastewater treatment modelling. That is, rather than modelling nitrogen as a series of fractions of other carbonaceous state variables, this new model includes six dedicated nitrogen state variables. This structure makes this new anaerobic model easier to incorporate into plant-wide models by simplifying the aerobic/anaerobic model interfaces. The model is complete and initial success with the model has been achieved. A comprehensive description of the model including a Petersen Matrix representation of the model is included as is a case study in which the model is applied to full-scale anaerobic digesters.

Increases in tissue Pco2 during circulatory shock reflect selective decreases in capillary blood flow.Tissue Pco2 reflects metabolic alterations due to circulatory failure during circulatory shock. This study addresses simultaneous changes in gastric and buccal tissue Pco2 with changes in microcirculatory blood flow in a rat model of circulatory shock induced by cecal ligation and puncture.
Prospective controlled laboratory study.
University-affiliated research laboratory.
Male breeder Sprague-Dawley rats.
Induction of polymicrobial, abdominal sepsis by cecal ligation and puncture.
Tissue Pco2 was continuously measured with the aid of a miniature carbon dioxide electrode. Using orthogonal polarization spectral imaging, recordings of the microcirculation were taken at baseline and hourly intervals until death and compared with sham-operated animals. Gastric and buccal tissue Pco2 values progressively increased in animals after cecal ligation and puncture and terminated in death. Microcirculatory blood flow in vessels >20 microm was well preserved during progression of shock, whereas there was an early and progressive decrease in microcirculatory blood flow in vessels <20 microm, mostly representing capillaries. Tissue Pco2, the tissue Pco2-Paco2 gradient, and blood flow in vessels <20 microm were highly correlated. This contrasted with sham control animals in which no significant hemodynamic, blood gas, lactate, microcirculatory, and tissue Pco2 abnormalities were observed.
These observations suggest that microcirculatory failure in capillaries appears as an early defect in close association with anaerobic metabolism during progression of circulatory shock in an animal model of septic peritonitis.

Structural insight into the ligand specificity of a thermostable family 51 arabinofuranosidase, Araf51, from Clostridium thermocellum.The digestion of the plant cell wall requires the concerted action of a diverse repertoire of enzyme activities. An important component of these hydrolase consortia are arabinofuranosidases, which release L-arabinofuranose moieties from a range of plant structural polysaccharides. The anaerobic bacterium Clostridium thermocellum, a highly efficient plant cell wall degrader, possesses a single alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase (EC 3.2.1.55), CtAraf51A, located in GH51 (glycoside hydrolase family 51). The crystal structure of the enzyme has been solved in native form and in 'Michaelis' complexes with both alpha-1,5-linked arabinotriose and alpha-1,3 arabinoxylobiose, both forming a hexamer in the asymmetric unit. Kinetic studies reveal that CtAraf51A, in contrast with well-characterized GH51 enzymes including the Cellvibrio japonicus enzyme [Beylot, McKie, Voragen, Doeswijk-Voragen and Gilbert (2001) Biochem. J. 358, 607-614], catalyses the hydrolysis of alpha-1,5-linked arabino-oligosaccharides and the alpha-1,3 arabinosyl side chain decorations of xylan with equal efficiency. The paucity of direct hydrogen bonds with the aglycone moiety and the flexible conformation adopted by Trp(178), which stacks against the sugar at the +1 subsite, provide a structural explanation for the plasticity in substrate specificity displayed by the clostridial arabinofuranosidase.

High levels of nitrifying bacteria in intermittently aerated reactors treating high ammonia wastewater.Changes in the fractions of ammonia-oxidizing bacteria and nitrite-oxidizing bacteria in two laboratory-scale reactors were investigated using 16S rRNA probe hybridizations. The reactors were operated in intermittent aeration mode and different aeration cycles to treat anaerobically digested swine wastewater with ammonia concentrations up to 175 mg NH(3)-N/L. High ammonia removals (>98.8%) were achieved even with increased nitrogen loads and lower aeration: non-aeration time ratios of 1h:3h. Nitrosomonas/Nitrosococcus mobilis were the dominant ammonia-oxidizing bacteria in the reactors. Nitrospira-like organisms were the dominant nitrite-oxidizing bacteria during most of the investigation, but were occasionally outcompeted by Nitrobacter. High levels of nitrifiers were measured in the biomass of both reactors, and ammonia-oxidizing bacteria and nitrite-oxidizing bacterial levels adjusted to changing aeration: non-aeration time ratios. Theoretical ammonia-oxidizer fractions, determined by a mathematical model, were comparable to the measured values, although the measured biomass fractions were different at each stage while the theoretical values remained approximately constant. Stable ammonia removals and no nitrite accumulation were observed even when rRNA levels of ammonia oxidizers and nitrite-oxidizers reached a minimum of 7.2% and 8.6% of total rRNA, respectively. Stable nitrogen removal performance at an aeration: non-aeration ratio of 1h:3h suggests the possibility of significant savings in operational costs.

Bile salt biotransformations by human intestinal bacteria.Secondary bile acids, produced solely by intestinal bacteria, can accumulate to high levels in the enterohepatic circulation of some individuals and may contribute to the pathogenesis of colon cancer, gallstones, and other gastrointestinal (GI) diseases. Bile salt hydrolysis and hydroxy group dehydrogenation reactions are carried out by a broad spectrum of intestinal anaerobic bacteria, whereas bile acid 7-dehydroxylation appears restricted to a limited number of intestinal anaerobes representing a small fraction of the total colonic flora. Microbial enzymes modifying bile salts differ between species with respect to pH optima, enzyme kinetics, substrate specificity, cellular location, and possibly physiological function. Crystallization, site-directed mutagenesis, and comparisons of protein secondary structure have provided insight into the mechanisms of several bile acid-biotransforming enzymatic reactions. Molecular cloning of genes encoding bile salt-modifying enzymes has facilitated the understanding of the genetic organization of these pathways and is a means of developing probes for the detection of bile salt-modifying bacteria. The potential exists for altering the bile acid pool by targeting key enzymes in the 7alpha/beta-dehydroxylation pathway through the development of pharmaceuticals or sequestering bile acids biologically in probiotic bacteria, which may result in their effective removal from the host after excretion.

The role of a salt marsh plant on trace metal bioavailability in sediments. Estimation by different chemical approaches.The presence or absence of vegetation can condition sediment characteristics. The main aim of this work was to investigate the influence of the sea rush Juncus maritimus on metal (Cd, Cr, Cu, Fe, Mn, Ni, Pb and Zn) availability to organisms living on or in estuarine sediments, from Douro River (NW Portugal), by comparing the characteristics and chemical behaviour of rhizosediments (collected within the plant assemblage) and those of sediment (collected around the plant). In order to evaluate whether and how sediment characteristics condition the role of plants on metal availability, sandy and muddy sediments colonised by J. maritimus were studied in parallel.
Metal availability was estimated by enzymatic digestion with pepsin (ED), which may provide an estimate of metal availability to organisms living at estuarine sediments. Nevertheless, since no consensus exists yet on the most suitable methodologies to estimate metal bioavailability in sediments, two more conventional approaches, BCR sequential extraction (SE) and AVS/ SEM model, were also used, in parallel, and the information these approaches provided was compared with that provided by ED. Total-recoverable metal contents were determined by atomic absorption spectrophotometry after sediment digestion using a high-pressure microwave system.
Plants could concentrate metals around its roots and rhizomes. In addition, they were capable of oxidizing (release of oxygen by the roots) the anaerobic medium surrounding their roots in muddy sediment (reducing AVS). As sulphide oxidation renders metals (Cd, Cu, Ni, Pb and Zn) into more soluble forms, according to the AVS/SEM model, metals from muddy sites would be more available in rhizosediment than in sediment. The SE approach led to a similar conclusion. Nevertheless, the results provided by ED pointed at opposite conclusion, particularly for Cd and Zn, indicating less availability at rhizosediments than in the surrounding sediment. ED results were interpreted as a consequence of an enrichment of the rhizosediment in organic ligands exuded by the roots or liberated by dead plants. The effect of complexation of metals by organic compounds, which ED could not decompose/dissolve, seemed to overcome that caused by sediment oxidation. In general, a comparison of the informa tion about metal availability by ED, SE, AVS/SEM, showed that it did not always match and in few cases it was even contradictory.
Therefore, a thorough evaluation of the metal availability in sediments requires a combination of different chemical approaches, so as to take into consideration differences in ways of organism exposure (interstitial water and/or ingestion of sediment particles).

Anaerobic digestion of cattail by rumen cultures.The anaerobic digestion of aquatic plants could serve the dual roles for producing renewable energy and reducing waste. In this study, the anaerobic digestion of cattail (Typha latifolia linn), a lignocellulosic aquatic plant, by rumen microorganisms in batch cultures was investigated. At a substrate level of 12.4 g/l volatile solids (VS) and pH 6.7, maximum VS conversion of 66% was achieved within an incubation time of 125 h. However, a decrease in pH from 6.7 to 5.8 resulted in a marked reduction in VS conversion. The total volatile fatty acids (VFAs) yield was about 0.56 g/g VS digested. Acetate and propionate were the major aqueous fermentation products, while butyrate, i-butyrate and valerate were also formed in smaller quantities. Biogas that was produced was composed of carbon dioxide, methane and hydrogen. A modified Gompertz equation was developed to describe substrate consumption and product formation. The hydrolysis of insoluble components was the rate-limiting step in the anaerobic digestion of cattail.

Evidence for clostridial implication in necrotizing enterocolitis through bacterial fermentation in a gnotobiotic quail model.Despite extensive research, the pathogenesis of neonatal necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) remains elusive. The aim of our work was to investigate the role of bacterial strains involved in NEC in gnotobiotic quails as experimental model. Six groups of germ-free quails that were fed a lactose diet were associated with Klebsiella pneumoniae, Clostridium perfringens, C. difficile, C. paraputrificum, or C. butyricum (two strains). Implantation level, incidence of cecal lesions, production of short-chain fatty acids, and histologic lesions of the cecal wall were investigated. Whatever the strain, the implantation level was high (10(9) UFC/g). Neither K. pneumoniae nor C. difficile induced any cecal lesions. In contrast, the four other clostridial strains led to cecal NEC-like lesions with a variable occurrence: four of 12 quails for C. perfringens, eight of 12 quails for C. paraputrificum, and the same highest value, nine of 12 quails and eight of 10 quails for both C. butyricum strains. Gross aspects of the lesions may be linked to the short-chain fatty acid profiles and/or concentrations: thickening of the cecal wall (C. butyricum and C. perfringens) with high proportion of butyric acid, hemorrhages (C. paraputrificum) with high proportion of iso-butyric acid, and presence of other iso-acids. In addition, C. butyricum was characterized by pneumatosis, linked to a high gas production. Microscopic aspects confirmed the presence of edemas and intramucosa hemorrhages. Clostridia species, whose role is controversial, seem to be strongly implicated in NEC through excessive production of butyric acid as a result of colonic lactose fermentation. These results call for anaerobe detection in feces of infants who have NEC.

Assessing the environmental burdens of anaerobic digestion in comparison to alternative options for managing the biodegradable fraction of municipal solid wastes.Biological treatment processes including anaerobic digestion (biogasification) and composting are increasingly being considered by waste management officials and planners as alternatives for managing the mainly organic residues of municipal solid wastes (MSW). The integrated waste management model which is based upon the application of life-cycle analysis was employed to compare the environmental burdens of landfilling, composting and anaerobic digestion of MSW at a mid-sized Canadian community. Energy consumption (or recovery), residue recoveries and emissions to air and water were quantified. Scenario comparisons were analyzed to demonstrate that the environmental burdens associated with anaerobic digestion are reduced in comparison with the alternative options. The major benefit occurs as a result of the electricity produced from burning the biogas and then supplying the 'green power' to the local electrical grid.

Continuity-based interfacing of models for wastewater systems described by Petersen matrices.In this paper the Petersen and composition matrices that modellers are now familiar with are used as a basis to construct interfacing models between subsystems considered in wastewater treatment. Starting from continuity considerations and a set of transformation reactions between components used in the two models of the subsystems to be interfaced, a set of linear algebraic equations needs to be solved. The theoretical development is illustrated using a simplified integrated model of an activated sludge system coupled to an anaerobic digester. Continuity-guaranteed interfacing of subsystems will facilitate optimization studies of the within-the-fence process units of a wastewater treatment plant or of the integrated urban wastewater system.

Application of the IWA anaerobic digestion model (ADM1) for simulating full-scale anaerobic sewage sludge digestion.A steady-state implementation of the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) has been applied to the anaerobic digesters in two wastewater treatment plants. The two plants have a wastewater treatment capacity of 76,000 and 820,000 m3/day, respectively, with approximately 12 and 205 dry metric tons sludge fed to digesters per day. The main purpose of this study is to compare the ADM1 model results with full-scale anaerobic digestion performance. For both plants, the prediction of the steady-state ADM1 implementation using the suggested physico-chemical and biochemical parameter values was able to reflect the results from the actual digester operations to a reasonable degree of accuracy on all parameters. The predicted total solids (TS) and volatile solids (VS) concentration in the digested biosolids, as well as the digester volatile solids destruction (VSD), biogas production and biogas yield are within 10% of the actual digester data. This study demonstrated that the ADM1 is a powerful tool for predicting the steady-state behaviour of anaerobic digesters treating sewage sludges. In addition, it showed that the use of a whole wastewater treatment plant simulator for fractionating the digester influent into the ADM1 input parameters was successful.

Multi-wavelength fluorometry for anaerobic digestion process monitoring.Applicability of multi-wavelength fluorometry for anaerobic digestion process monitoring was investigated in a 3.5 L upflow anaerobic sludge bed (UASB) lab-scale reactor. Both off-line and on-line monitoring of key process parameters was tested. Off-line emission spectra were measured at an angle of 90 degrees to the excitation beam using a cuvette. On-line measurements were carried out using a fiber optic probe in the external recirculation line of the digester. Fluorescence spectra were correlated to available analytical measurements to obtain partial least square regression models. An independent set of measurements was used to validate the regression models. Model estimations showed reasonable agreement with analytical measurements with multiple determination coefficients (R2) between 0.6 and 0.95. Results showed that offline fluorescence measurements can be used for fast estimation of anaerobic digestor effluent quality. At the same time, the on-line implementation of multi-wavelength fluorescence measurements can be used for realtime process monitoring and, potentially, for on-line process control.

Robust interval-based regulation for anaerobic digestion processes.A robust regulation law is applied to the stabilization of a class of biochemical reactors exhibiting partially known highly nonlinear dynamic behavior. An uncertain environment with the presence of unknown inputs is considered. Based on some structural and operational conditions, this regulation law is shown to exponentially stabilize the aforementioned bioreactors around a desired set-point. This approach is experimentally applied and validated on a pilot-scale (1 m3) anaerobic digestion process for the treatment of raw industrial wine distillery wastewater where the objective is the regulation of the chemical oxygen demand (COD) by using the dilution rate as the manipulated variable. Despite large disturbances on the input COD and state and parametric uncertainties, this regulation law gave excellent performances leading the output COD towards its set-point and keeping it inside a pre-specified interval.

Kinetic parameters estimation in an anaerobic digestion process using successive quadratic programming.In this work, an optimization method is implemented in an anaerobic digestion model to estimate its kinetic parameters and yield coefficients. This method combines the use of advanced state estimation schemes and powerful nonlinear programming techniques to yield fast and accurate estimates of the aforementioned parameters. In this method, we first implement an asymptotic observer to provide estimates of the non-measured variables (such as biomass concentration) and good guesses for the initial conditions of the parameter estimation algorithm. These results are then used by the successive quadratic programming (SQP) technique to calculate the kinetic parameters and yield coefficients of the anaerobic digestion process. The model, provided with the estimated parameters, is tested with experimental data from a pilot-scale fixed bed reactor treating raw industrial wine distillery wastewater. It is shown that SQP reaches a fast and accurate estimation of the kinetic parameters despite highly noise corrupted experimental data and time varying inputs variables. A statistical analysis is also performed to validate the combined estimation method. Finally, a comparison between the proposed method and the traditional Marquardt technique shows that both yield similar results; however, the calculation time of the traditional technique is considerable higher than that of the proposed method.

A dispersion based model for anaerobic digestion of solid cattle wastes in a stratified thermophilic accumulation system.A dynamic model has been developed to describe the anaerobic digestion of solid cattle waste in an accumulation system (AC). To calibrate the model an experiment was carried out at a lab-scale AC at 50 degrees C. The predicted methane production shows a very good agreement (i.e. R2 = 0.998) with the experimental data. However less agreement is evident for the intermediates. After model validation the model was applied to study the effect of different aspect ratios on the system performance. An optimum aspect ratio of 2-3 could be determined.

Conversion of municipal solid waste to carboxylic acids using a mixed culture of mesophilic microorganisms.Waste biomass was anaerobically converted to carboxylate salts by using a mixed culture of acid-forming microorganisms. Municipal solid waste (MSW) was the energy source (carbohydrates) and sewage sludge (SS) was the nutrient source (minerals, metals, and vitamins). Four fermentors were arranged in series and solids and liquids were transferred countercurrently in opposite directions, which allows both high conversions and high product concentrations. Fresh biomass was added to Fermentor 1 (highest carboxylic acid concentration) and fresh media was added to Fermentor 4 (most digested biomass). All fermentations were performed at 40 degrees C. Calcium carbonate was added to the fermentors to neutralize the acids to their corresponding carboxylate salts. Iodoform was used to inhibit methane production and urea was added as a nitrogen source. Product concentrations were up to 25 g/L, with productivities up to 1.4 g total acid/(L liquid d). Mass balances with closure between 93% and 105% were obtained for all systems. Continuum particle distribution modeling (CPDM) was applied to correlate batch fermentation data to countercurrent fermentation data and predict product concentration over a wide range of solids loading rates and residence times. CPDM for lime-treated MSW/SS fermentation system predicted the experimental total acid concentration and conversion within 4% and 16% respectively.

Structure of a cellulose degrading bacterial community during anaerobic digestion.It is widely accepted that cellulose is the rate-limiting substrate in the anaerobic digestion of organic solid wastes and that cellulose solubilisation is largely mediated by surface attached bacteria. However, little is known about the identity or the ecophysiology of cellulolytic microorganisms from landfills and anaerobic digesters. The aim of this study was to investigate an enriched cellulolytic microbial community from an anaerobic batch reactor. Chemical oxygen demand balancing was used to calculate the cellulose solubilisation rate and the degree of cellulose solubilisation. Fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) was used to assess the relative abundance and physical location of three groups of bacteria belonging to the Clostridium lineage of the Firmicutes that have been implicated as the dominant cellulose degraders in this system. Quantitation of the relative abundance using FISH showed that there were changes in the microbial community structure throughout the digestion. However, comparison of these results to the process data reveals that these changes had no impact on the cellulose solubilisation in the reactor. The rate of cellulose solubilisation was approximately stable for much of the digestion despite changes in the cellulolytic population. The solubilisation rate appears to be most strongly affected by the rate of surface area colonisation and the biofilm architecture with the accepted model of first order kinetics due to surface area limitation applying only when the cellulose particles are fully covered with a thin layer of cells.

Inactivation of Ascaris suum and poliovirus in biosolids under thermophilic anaerobic digestion conditions.There is considerable interest in the United States in production of Class A (low pathogen content) biosolids from the treatment of municipal wastewater sludge. Current requirements imposed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency make it difficult for thermophilic anaerobic digestion, in its simplest process configurations, to achieve Class A status. In particular, the time-temperature requirements necessitate long batch treatment times at temperatures associated with thermophilic anaerobic digestion. The time-temperature requirements are meant to ensure extensive inactivation of helminth eggs and enteric viruses, considered to be the most heat-resistant of the relevant pathogen classes. However, data on inactivation kinetics of these pathogens at precisely controlled and well-characterized temperatures are scarce. We measured inactivation of vaccine-strain poliovirus and eggs from the helminth Ascaris suum at temperatures from 49 to 55 degrees C in a lab-scale batch reactor containing biosolids from a continuous-flow thermophilic anaerobic digester. Both microbes were inactivated rapidly, with Ascaris more resistant to inactivation than poliovirus, and the relationships between inactivation rate and temperature were steep. The Arrhenius correlation between inactivation rate and temperature over the range 49-53 degrees C is consistent with protein denaturation as the inactivation mechanism for both microbes. The least stringent of the EPA time-temperature equations for thermal processes requires batch treatment times more than 2 orders of magnitude greater than would be required for three-log reduction of Ascaris at the rates we measured, suggesting an overly conservative regulatory approach. Such a grossly conservative approach can hinder full-scale implementation of thermophilic anaerobic digestion.

Anaerobic digestion of animal waste: effect of mode of mixing.Laboratory-scale digesters were operated to study the effect of mixing (via biogas recirculation, impeller mixing, and slurry recirculation) on biogas production. Three sets of experiments were performed using cow manure slurry feed with either 50, 100, or 150 g/L total solids (TS) concentrations (referred in the text as 5%, 10%, and 15% manure slurry). The experiments were conducted at a controlled temperature of 35 degrees C and a hydraulic retention time of 16.2 days, resulting in TS loadings of 3.1, 6.2, and 9.3g/Ld for 5%, 10%, and 15% manure slurry feeds, respectively. Results showed that the unmixed and mixed digesters performed quite similarly when fed with 5% manure slurry and produced biogas at a rate of 0.84-0.94 L/Ld. The methane yield was found to be 0.26-0.28 L CH4/g volatile solids loaded. However, the effect of mixing and the mode of mixing became important when the digesters were fed thick manure slurry feeds (10% and 15%). Digesters fed with 10% and 15% manure slurry and equipped with external mixing produced about 10-30% more biogas than the unmixed digester. While the mixed digesters produced more biogas than unmixed digesters, digester mixing during start-up was not beneficial, as it resulted in lower pH, performance instability and prolonged start-up time. Mixing using biogas recirculation system was found not to be effective in the case of 15% manure slurry feed under the experimental conditions studied.

Impact of residual and therapeutic doses of ciprofloxacin in the human-flora-associated mice model.A study was conducted to evaluate the effects of therapeutic and residual doses of ciprofloxacin on the human intestinal flora implanted into germ-free mice. Ciprofloxacin was administered daily via drinking water at concentrations to provide doses of 0, 0.125, 1.25, and 12.5mg/kg b.w. Changes in the intestinal flora composition, alteration in bacterial enzyme activities, fecal short chain fatty acid concentration and bacterial cellular fatty acid profiles, overgrowth of resistant bacteria, and disruption of the colonization barrier were the endpoints evaluated in the feces of human-flora-associated (HFA) mice. Ciprofloxacin at all tested doses decreased significantly the aerobic populations and particularly the population of Enterobacteriaceae. Selection of resistant Bacteroides fragilis group was noticed in HFA mice receiving 12.5mg/kg b.w. In mice challenged with a Salmonella strain, exogenous Salmonella persisted in the feces of all treated mice indicating that the flora responsible for the colonization barrier effect was disturbed by the antibiotic treatment. None of the studied metabolic parameters of the flora were affected by ciprofloxacin at any dose level. Under the experimental conditions of the study, the no-observed-effect level of ciprofloxacin was found to be less than 0.125 mg/kg b.w.

Computer model for municipal solid waste treatment in developing countries.Many integrated solid waste management (ISWM) models are available but are of little use to developing countries such as India since they do not take into account typical developing countries municipal solid waste characteristics such as high organic content, poor performance of formal sector control and support, high activity of scavengers and waste pickers, etc. The goal of this study is to create a computer program to determine the least cost treatment and disposal system for a given solid waste management problem. To demonstrate its applicability, the model was applied to the Indian city Amritsar. A typical Indian city like Amritsar generates about 500 ton of MSW/d with 45% moisture content, 30% volatile matter, and calorific value of 1500 kcal/kg. The computer model was run for various technologies. Results showthatfor Amritsar city incineration an expenditure of U.S. dollars (USD) 6.62 is incurred, whereas landfilling, composting, and biomethanation digester give an income of USD 0.13, USD 0.20, and USD 0.23 per ton of MSW, respectively. This empirical exercise not only reveals the model's strengths such as highlighting important interdependencies in the waste management sector but also its requirement for quality data.

Effects of zinc oxide and Enterococcus faecium SF68 dietary supplementation on the performance, intestinal microbiota and immune status of weaned piglets.The objective of this study was to determine the effects of zinc oxide (ZnO) and the probiotic Enterococcus faecium SF68 (Cylactin) dietary supplementation on the performance, intestinal microbiota and immune parameters of the weaned piglet reared under commercial conditions. The diets were devoid of antibiotic growth promoters (AGP). Two hundred and eight crossbred piglets were allocated to a 2 x 2 factorial experiment involving two levels of zinc oxide supplementation (0 or 3100 mg ZnO/kg feed), and two levels of E. faecium SF68 supplementation (0 or 1.4 x 10(9)CFU/kg feed (Cylactin ME10)). The diets were offered ad libitum for 20 days post-weaning. Piglet performance was assessed by calculating average daily gain (ADG), average daily feed intake (ADFI) and feed conversion ratio (FCR) on a pen basis. In addition, components of the distal ileal digesta, tissue-associated and mesenteric lymph node (MLN) bacterial populations were enumerated and serum immunoglobulin G (IgG) and intestinal immunoglobulin A (IgA) concentrations were determined on days 6 and 20 post-weaning. Regression analysis was used to determine the relationship between the bacterial populations at the different sites. Supplementation of the post-weaning diet with either ZnO or E. faecium SF68 did not affect piglet performance. E. faecium SF68 did not affect gastrointestinal bacterial populations but did tend to reduce serum IgG (P<0.1) on day 20. Zinc oxide reduced anaerobic (P<0.05) and tended to decrease lactic acid (P<0.1) bacterial translocation to the MLN, and tended to increase intestinal IgA concentration (P<0.1) on day 20. Generally, luminal bacterial populations were found to be poor predictors of tissue-associated or MLN populations. ZnO and E. faecium SF68 dietary supplementation were ineffective under these trial conditions. Further investigations into the possible immunomodulator role of dietary ZnO are warranted.

Comparison of in vitro characteristics of and experimental lesions produced by a clinical and an environmental isolate of Aspergillus flavus.In the present study, two strains of Aspergillus flavus (one from a human corneal ulcer and one from the environment) were found to be strikingly similar in vitro in terms of thermotolerance, inability to grow in an anaerobic environment and in secreting proteinases; however, one obvious difference was that the clinical isolate produced 120 ppb of aflatoxin B1 in glucose salt medium while the environmental isolate did not produce this toxic metabolite. Alterations in the activities of acid phosphatase (ACP), alkaline phosphatase (ALP), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and glutathione-S-transferase were observed in the liver, kidney and serum in an experimental rat model, irrespective of whether the animal had been challenged with the clinical isolate or the environmental isolate of A. flavus. In rats that had been challenged with the clinical isolate, a significant decrease in the activity of kidney ALP was noted, whereas in rats that had been challenged with the environmental isolate, the reverse was observed. While these differential alterations may have occurred due to differences in the toxin-producing ability of the two isolates, further investigation is warranted to clarify whether other phenotypic, or genotypic, differences are also involved.

Effects of piperacillin/tazobactam on Clostridium difficile growth and toxin production in a human gut model.Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) is a major cause of morbidity in the nosocomial environment. Antimicrobial agents such as the third-generation cephalosporins, lincosamides and aminopenicillins are well known for their propensity to induce CDI, but the definitive reasons why remain to be elucidated. Despite their broad spectrum of activity against both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, the ureidopenicillins remain a class of antimicrobials infrequently associated with the development of CDI.
We used a triple-stage chemostat model that simulates the human gut to study the effects of the ureidopenicillin/beta-lactamase inhibitor combination piperacillin/tazobactam on gut bacterial populations and C. difficile.
Piperacillin/tazobactam rapidly reduced all enumerated gut bacterial populations (including bacteroides, bifidobacteria and lactobacilli) below the limits of detection by the end of the piperacillin/tazobactam instillation period. Despite such widespread disruption of gut bacterial populations, C. difficile populations remained principally as spores, with no sustained proliferation or high-level cytotoxin production observed.
Factors other than reduced colonization resistance must be responsible for determining whether CDI develops following antimicrobial administration. We believe the gut model is a promising approach for the study of C. difficile pathogenesis reflecting in vivo events likely to occur in CDI.

Effect of lactobacillus on the gut microflora and barrier function of the rats with abdominal infection.To investigate the effect of probiotics supplemented by gut on the tight junctions of epithelial cells, barrier function and the microflora of rats with abdominal infection.
After the model of cecal ligation and perforation established, SD rats were divided into two groups: parenteral nutrition (PN) group and PN+probiotics (probiotics) group, PN solution was supplemented by neck vein and probiotics was delivered via the jejunostomy tube for five days. Vena cava blood and the homogenated tissue of liver, lung and mesenteric lymph nodes were cultured to determine the bacterial translocation rate (BTR). The ultra-structure of epithelial tight junctions and microvilli of the gut were observed by electron microscopy; occluding expression was measured by indirect-immune fluorescence method; anaerobic bacterial growth by anaerobic culture and DNA fingerprint of bacterial colonies of the feces by PCR.
The quantity of lactobacteria and bifydobacteria in probiotics group was higher than that of PN group. The profiles of DNA fingerprint expression in probiotics group were similar to that in the normal group, a new 16S rDNA sequence appeared in the profile in PN group. The occludin expression, the integrality of the gut epithelial tight junction and microvilli in probiotics group were improved as compared with PN group. The BTR and endotoxin in blood were reduced more significantly in probiotics group as compared with PN group.
The probiotics could improve the gut microflora disturbance, increase occludin expression, maintain the gut epithelial tight junction and decrease the bacterial translocations rate.

Effects of dietary fiber on inflammatory bowel disease.The chronic idiopathic inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs), namely Crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis, appear to be derived from an inappropriate reaction towards a luminal agent, most probably driven by the intestinal microflora, which upregulates the synthesis and release of different pro-inflammatory mediators, thus contributing to tissue damage that characterizes these intestinal conditions. Several studies have reported that IBD is associated with impairment in short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) production, mainly acetate, propionate, and butyrate. They are produced in the large bowel by anaerobic bacterial fermentation of undigested dietary carbohydrates and fiber polysaccharides, with butyrate being considered as the major fuel source for colonocytes. These SCFAs have been proposed to play a key role in the maintenance of colonic homeostasis. Therefore, it is reasonable to consider therapeutic approaches that increase colonic SCFA production, as it can be achieved by administration of dietary fiber to IBD patients. Unfortunately, there is quite limited documentation of efficacy of dietary fiber in properly designed trials. This review discusses the rationale, available evidence for the use of dietary fiber and its mechanisms of action in the treatment and prevention of IBDs.

Effects of psychological stress on small intestinal motility and bacteria and mucosa in mice.To investigate the effects of psychological stress on small intestinal motility and bacteria and mucosa in mice, and to explore the relationship between small intestinal dysfunction and small intestinal motility and bacteria and mucosa under psychological stress.
Sixty mice were randomly divided into psychological stress group and control group. Each group were subdivided into small intestinal motility group (n = 10), bacteria group (n = 10), and D-xylose administered to stomach group (n = 10). An animal model with psychological stress was established housing the mice with a hungry cat in separate layers of a two-layer cage. A semi-solid colored marker (carbon-ink) was used for monitoring small intestinal transit. The proximal small intestine was harvested under sterile condition and processed for quantitation for aerobes (Escherichia coli) and anaerobes (Lactobacilli). The quantitation of bacteria was expressed as log10(colony forming units/g). D-xylose levels in plasma were measured for estimating the damage of small intestinal mucosa.
Small intestinal transit was inhibited (39.80+/-9.50% vs 58.79+/-11.47%, P<0.01) in mice after psychological stress, compared with the controls. Psychological stress resulted in quantitative alterations in the aerobes (E. coli). There was an increase in the number of E. coli in the proximal small intestinal flora (1.78+/-0.30 log10 (CFU/g) vs 1.37+/-0.21 log10 (CFU/g), P<0.01), and there was decrease in relative proportion of Lactobacilli and E. coli of stressed mice (0.53+/-0.63 vs 1.14+/-1.07, P<0.05), while there was no significant difference in the anaerobes (Lactobacilli) between the two groups (2.31+/-0.70 log10 (CFU/g) vs 2.44+/-0.37 log10 (CFU/g), P>0.05). D-xylose concentrations in plasma in psychological stress mice were significantly higher than those in the control group (2.90+/-0.89 mmol/L vs 0.97+/-0.33 mmol/L, P<0.01).
Small intestinal dysfunction under psychological stress may be related to the small intestinal motility disorder and dysbacteriosis and the damage of mucosa probably caused by psychological stress.

Bacterial translocation in acute rejection after small bowel transplantation in rats.Acute rejection after small bowel transplantation (SBTx) may facilitate bacterial translocation (BT) and subsequent changes in the liver, spleen, and lungs. This study investigated whether BT occurs after acute rejection and whether this is followed by changes in the structure of the intestine and the phagocytic organs interposed between the gut and the general circulation. Orthotopic SBTx was performed in allogeneic (ALLO) rat-strain combinations (BN-Wistar, n=5). For comparison we used syngeneic SBTx (SYN) (BN-BN, n=6) controls. Animals were sacrificed on postoperative day 7. Mesenteric lymph nodes and portal and caval blood were cultured for aerobes and anaerobes. Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase DNA was assessed by polymerase chain reaction in the blood samples. Intestine, liver, spleen, and lung protein and DNA contents were measured. Histologic changes were graded according to standard criteria of acute rejection. For comparisons we used chi(2) and nonparametric Mann-Whitney test with a threshold of significance of p<0.05. ALLO rats lost more weight after SBTx than SYN rats (-13.02+/-4.39% vs. -8.04+/-5.08% of preoperative weight), although the difference was not significant (ns). A variable degree of graft rejection was histologically demonstrated in all ALLO rats, and DNA/protein content in the graft was significantly higher in this group (0.245+/-0.85 vs. 0.134+/-0.21, p<0.05). Gram-negative enteric bacteria were found in 4/5 ALLO and 4/6 SYN rats (ns), and aerobic Gram-positive bacteria in 2/5 and 3/6 (ns), respectively. Anaerobic growth occurred in mesenteric lymph nodes in one ALLO rat and in the bloodstream in another one. E. coli DNA was isolated in none of the ALLO but in two SYN rats (ns). BT was frequent after SBTx in both syngeneic and allogeneic strain combinations. Contrary to our expectations, BT after SBTx was not higher in ALLO group rats. However, anaerobic germs were isolated only in this group.

Effect of the macrolide antibacterial drug, tylosin, on TNBS-induced colitis in the rat.Bacterial antigens, such as intestinal microflora, are known to play a role in the pathogenesis of human inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). Tylosin, a macrolide antimicrobial agent, has proven to be effective in cat and dog chronic colitis, but the reasons underlying this efficacy are still unclear. In the present study we evaluated the effects of tylosin on 2,4,6-trinitrobenzenesulfonic acid (TNBS)-induced colitis in the rat, in comparison with the antibacterial drug metronidazole and the corticosteroid budesonide. Colitis was induced by a single intrarectal administration of 10 mg TNBS under light ether anesthesia. Tylosin (20 mg/kg twice a day), metronidazole (160 mg/kg twice a day) and budesonide (500 microg/kg once a day) were given orally for up to 6 days to separate groups of rats. The animals were sacrificed after 6 days and colonic lesions evaluated (colon weight, macroscopic and histologic damage, myeloperoxidase activity). Tylosin and metronidazole significantly lowered macroscopic lesion score, reduced colon weight, the severity of histologic lesions and myeloperoxidase activity; budesonide did not significantly change the parameters of colonic inflammation. These data indicate a protective effect of tylosin against intestinal inflammation, suggesting a major role for bacteria, anaerobes in particular, in the development of TNBS-induced mucosal damage.

Is portal venous outflow better than systemic venous outflow in small bowel transplantation? Experimental study in syngeneic rats.Blood drainage of the graft into the recipient portal vein reestablishes the physiological venous outflow after small bowel transplantation (SBT). However, although this approach is likely beneficial for the host, it may be technically more demanding making portocaval venous drainage the preferred arrangement during human SBT. The aim of this study was to examine in a syngeneic model of SBT the possible benefits of portoportal anastomosis (PPA) vs portocaval anastomosis (PCA) in terms of body and organ weights and bacterial translocation.
Syngeneic SBT was carried out in 25 Brown-Norway male rats weighing 249 +/- 17.5 g using either PPA (n = 13) or PCA (n = 12). Half the animals in each group were killed, respectively, on postoperative day 2 or 7. Liver, spleen, and lungs were weighed and under sterile conditions the regional lymph nodes were excised. The nodes and venous samples from the cava and portal veins were cultured for aerobes and anaerobes. Bacterial components were detected in blood by polymerase chain reaction. The findings in both groups were compared by chi2 or Mann-Whitney U tests.
Mean postoperative body weight change was -3.6% +/- 1.5% in PPA and -6.0% +/- 1.2% in PCA animals (ns) on day 2 and -6.5% +/- 2.6% and -8.0% +/- 5.0% (ns) on day 7. Liver, spleen, and lung weights were not significantly different between both groups on either end point. Gram-negative enteric bacteria were found in 3 of 7 PCA animals and 2 of 6 PPA animals at day 2 (ns) and in 1 of 6 and 4 of 6 on day 7 (ns). Aerobic gram-positive bacteria were found in 1 of 7 and 1 of 6 (ns), 3 of 6 and 3 of 6 (ns), respectively, in the 4 groups. Most positive cultures corresponded to portal blood and lymph node samples. There were no anaerobic growths.
-No body or organ weight change suggesting significant functional advantages of one technical alternative over the other could be demonstrated. -Bacterial translocation in the absence of rejection was frequent after SBT independently of the variety of venous outflow used. No difference in bacterial translocation between both anastomosis could be demonstrated. -Orthotopic venous drainage did not seem to be advantageous in the present experimental setting.

Decolorization kinetics of the azo dye reactive red 2 under methanogenic conditions: effect of long-term culture acclimation.The biological decolorization of the textile azo dye Reactive Red 2 was investigated using a mixed, mesophilic methanogenic culture, which was developed with mixed liquor obtained from a mesophilic, municipal anaerobic digester and enriched by feeding a mixture of dextrin/peptone as well as media containing salts, trace metals and vitamins. Batch decolorization assays were conducted with the unacclimated methanogenic culture and dye decolorization kinetics were determined as a function of initial dye, biomass, and carbon source concentrations. Dye decolorization was inhibited at initial dye concentrations higher than 100 mg l(-1) and decolorization kinetics were described based on the Haldane model. The effect of long-term culture exposure to the reactive dye on decolorization kinetics, culture acclimation, as well as possible dye mineralization was tested using two reactors fed weekly for two years with an initial dye concentration of 300 mg l(-1) and a mixture of dextrin/peptone. The maximum dye decolorization rate after a 2-year acclimation at an initial dye concentration of 300 mg l(-1) was more than 10-fold higher as compared to that obtained with the unacclimated culture. Aniline and the o-aminohydroxynaphthalene derivative resulting from the reductive azo bond cleavage of the dye were detected, but further transformation(s) leading to dye mineralization were not observed. Reactive Red 2 did not serve as the carbon and energy source for the mixed culture, and dye decolorization was sustained by the continuous addition of dextrin and peptone. Thus, biological decolorization of reactive azo dyes is feasible under conditions of low redox potential created and maintained in overall methanogenic systems, but supply of a biodegradable carbon source is necessary.

Mechanisms by which anaerobic microbiota inhibit the establishment in mice of intestinal colonization by vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus.We used a mouse model to test the hypothesis that anaerobic microbiota in the colon inhibit the establishment of vancomycin-resistant enterococci (VRE) colonization by depleting nutrients within cecal contents and limiting the association of VRE with the mucus layer. Anaerobic growth of VRE was assessed in cecal contents and cecal mucus of mice that had received treatment with subcutaneous clindamycin or saline. VRE grew to high concentrations in cecal contents of clindamycin-treated mice and in cecal mucus of both groups but not in cecal contents of saline-treated mice, unless the cecal contents were autoclaved or converted into sterile filtrates. After orogastric inoculation of VRE, clindamycin-treated mice acquired high concentrations of VRE within the mucus layer, whereas saline-treated mice did not. These results suggest that colonic microbiota inhibit VRE by producing inhibitory substances or conditions rather than by depleting nutrients. The colonic mucus layer provides a potential niche for growth of VRE.

A novel mechanism for desulfation of mucin: identification and cloning of a mucin-desulfating glycosidase (sulfoglycosidase) from Prevotella strain RS2.A novel enzyme which may be important in mucin degradation has been discovered in the mucin-utilizing anaerobe Prevotella strain RS2. This enzyme cleaves terminal 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-beta-D-glucopyranoside 6-sulfate (6-SO3-GlcNAc) residues from sulfomucin and from the model substrate 4-nitrophenyl 2-acetamido-2-deoxy-beta-D-glucopyranoside 6-sodium sulfate. The existence of this mucin-desulfating glycosidase (sulfoglycosidase) suggests an alternative mechanism by which this bacterium may desulfate sulfomucins, by glycosidic removal of a sulfated sugar from mucin oligosaccharide chains. Previously, mucin desulfation was thought to take place by the action of a specific desulfating enzyme, which then allowed glycosidases to remove desulfated sugar. Sulfate removal from sulfomucins is thought to be a rate-limiting step in mucin degradation by bacteria in the regions of the digestive tract with a significant bacterial flora. The sulfoglycosidase was induced by growth of the Prevotella strain on mucin and was purified 284-fold from periplasmic extracts. Tryptic digestion and sequencing of peptides from the 100-kDa protein enabled the sulfoglycosidase gene to be cloned and sequenced. Active recombinant enzyme was made in an Escherichia coli expression system. The sulfoglycosidase shows sequence similarity to hexosaminidases. The only other enzyme that has been shown to remove 6-SO3-GlcNAc from glycoside substrates is the human lysosomal enzyme beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase A, point mutations in which cause the inheritable, lysosomal storage disorder Tay-Sachs disease. The human enzyme removes GlcNAc from glycoside substrates also, in contrast to the Prevotella enzyme, which acts on a nonsulfated substrate at a rate that is only 1% of the rate observed with a sulfated substrate.

Sensors network diagnosis in anaerobic digestion processes using evidence theory.Instrumentation defines a sensors network on a process. Hardware sensors indeed allow one to get different information sources that can be often cross-checked to provide reliable data. However, each of these sources of information contains some uncertainties, either due to the hardware sensors' measurement principles, to their possible fouling, to the estimated parameters of the models used in software sensors and/or to the specific structures of the software sensors. This paper demonstrates that, in this context, the evidence theory is a very well suited formalism for fault detection and diagnosis. This theory indeed allows one to take into account the exact knowledge supported by each source of information and to combine them in order to detect the occurring faults. Moreover, this combination guarantees the best fault isolability from a practical point of view and is suitable for multiple faults occurring at the same time. Finally, the evidence theory is a highly modular formalism since new information sources can be very easily added and old ones can be removed. Validation is performed using real-life experiments from a 1 m3 anaerobic digestion fixed bed process used applied to the treatment of winery wastewaters.

On the estimation of the pseudo-stoichiometric matrix for macroscopic mass balance modelling of biotechnological processes.In this paper we propose a methodology to determine the structure of the pseudo-stoichiometric coefficient matrix kappa in a macroscopic mass balance based model. The first step consists in estimating the minimal number of reactions that must be taken into account to represent the main mass transfer within the bioreactor. This provides the dimension of kappa. Then we discuss the identifiability of the components of kappa and we propose a method to estimate their values. Finally we present a method to select among a set of possible macroscopic reaction networks those which are in agreement with the available measurements. These methods are illustrated with three examples: real data of the growth and biotransformation of the filamentous fungi Pycnoporus cinnabarinus, real data of an anaerobic digester involving a bacterial consortium degrading a mixture of organic substrates and a process of lipase production from olive oil by Candida rugosa.

Use of an anaerobic sequencing batch reactor for parameter estimation in modelling of anaerobic digestion.The model structure in anaerobic digestion has been clarified following publication of the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1). However, parameter values are not well known, and uncertainty and variability in the parameter values given is almost unknown. Additionally, platforms for identification of parameters, namely continuous-flow laboratory digesters, and batch tests suffer from disadvantages such as long run times, and difficulty in defining initial conditions, respectively. Anaerobic sequencing batch reactors (ASBRs) are sequenced into fill-react-settle-decant phases, and offer promising possibilities for estimation of parameters, as they are by nature, dynamic in behaviour, and allow repeatable behaviour to establish initial conditions, and evaluate parameters. In this study, we estimated parameters describing winery wastewater (most COD as ethanol) degradation using data from sequencing operation, and validated these parameters using unsequenced pulses of ethanol and acetate. The model used was the ADM1, with an extension for ethanol degradation. Parameter confidence spaces were found by non-linear, correlated analysis of the two main Monod parameters; maximum uptake rate (k(m)), and half saturation concentration (K(S)). These parameters could be estimated together using only the measured acetate concentration (20 points per cycle). From interpolating the single cycle acetate data to multiple cycles, we estimate that a practical "optimal" identifiability could be achieved after two cycles for the acetate parameters, and three cycles for the ethanol parameters. The parameters found performed well in the short term, and represented the pulses of acetate and ethanol (within 4 days of the winery-fed cycles) very well. The main discrepancy was poor prediction of pH dynamics, which could be due to an unidentified buffer with an overall influence the same as a weak base (possibly CaCO3). Based on this work, ASBR systems are effective for parameter estimation, especially for comparative wastewater characterisation. The main disadvantages are heavy computational requirements for multiple cycles, and difficulty in establishing the correct biomass concentration in the reactor, though the last is also a disadvantage for continuous fixed film reactors, and especially, batch tests.

Modelling of two-stage anaerobic digestion using the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1).The aim of the study presented was to implement a process model to simulate the dynamic behaviour of a pilot-scale process for anaerobic two-stage digestion of sewage sludge. The model implemented was initiated to support experimental investigations of the anaerobic two-stage digestion process. The model concept implemented in the simulation software package MATLAB/Simulink is a derivative of the IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No.1 (ADM1) that has been developed by the IWA task group for mathematical modelling of anaerobic processes. In the present study the original model concept has been adapted and applied to replicate a two-stage digestion process. Testing procedures, including balance checks and 'benchmarking' tests were carried out to verify the accuracy of the implementation. These combined measures ensured a faultless model implementation without numerical inconsistencies. Parameters for both, the thermophilic and the mesophilic process stage, have been estimated successfully using data from lab-scale experiments described in literature. Due to the high number of parameters in the structured model, it was necessary to develop a customised procedure that limited the range of parameters to be estimated. The accuracy of the optimised parameter sets has been assessed against experimental data from pilot-scale experiments. Under these conditions, the model predicted reasonably well the dynamic behaviour of a two-stage digestion process in pilot scale.

Investigation on the precaecal and faecal digestibility of lactulose and inulin and their influence on nutrient digestibility and microbial characteristics.This study was conducted to determine the pre-caecal and faecal digestibility of lactulose and inulin and the influence of these substances on nutrient digestibility and microbial characteristics. In metabolic trials three of six male growing pigs (German Landrace x Pietrain) were fitted with an ileo-rectal anastomosis (IRA) in end-to-end technique with preserved ileo-caeco-colic valve. The metabolic trials were conducted from day 21-63 after surgery. The remaining pigs were used as intact partners (IN) for the IRA pigs. The experimental diets, based on corn, wheat, barley and soybean meal, were supplemented with either 1.5% lactulose or 2% inulin in replacement of diatomaceous earth (control). Pre-caecal digestibility of lactulose and inulin was assessed to be 79 and 98%, respectively. faecal digestibility was determined as 100%. The supplementation of lactulose and inulin had only minor effects on the pre-caecal and faecal digestibility of nutrients. Significant differences in nutrient digestibility were obvious between IRA and IN pigs, whereas the IRA pigs showed lower digestibility values with the exception of ether extracts (EE). Bacterial population in the digesta of IRA and IN pigs were not affected by the experimental diets except the concentration of gram-negative anaerobes, which inclined when the IRA pigs received the lactulose diet. The pH of chyme was significantly lower than the pH of faeces, however the pH was unaffected by the different supplemented diets. The concentration of volatile fatty acids (VFA) in pre-caecal chyme decreased significantly when IRA pigs received the lactulose supplemented diet whereas VFA in faeces were unaffected by the supplementation. IRA pigs administered with lactulose excreted more N via the urine, but the nitrogen balance remained unaffected. From the present investigation it can be concluded that lactulose and inulin did only partly or scarcely fulfill the expectation of acting as prebiotics in pigs.

Analysis and application of ADM1 for anaerobic methane production.An anaerobic model for the serum bottle test was developed and analyzed with sensitivities of stoichiometric and kinetic parameters to the components in order to establish a basis for appropriate application of the model. Anaerobic glucose degradation in a serum bottle was selected as an example. The anaerobic model was developed based on the anaerobic digestion model no. 1 (ADM1), which had five processes with 17 kinetic and stoichiometric parameters. Sensitivity analysis showed that the yield of product on the substrate (f) has high sensitivities to model components, and that the methane concentration was the most sensitive component. Important parameters including yield of product on the substrate (f), yield of biomass on the substrate (Y), and half-saturation values (K) were estimated using genetic algorithms, which optimized the parameters with experimental results. The Monod maximum specific uptake rate (k) was, however, so strongly associated with the concentration of biomass, that values could not be estimated individually. Simulation with estimated parameters showed good agreement with experimental results in the case of methane production. However, there were some differences in acetate and propionate concentrations.

Utilization of the nitrate reductase enzymatic pathway to reduce enteric pathogens in chickens.Previous reports have shown that some bacteria, including Salmonella, use a dissimilatory nitrate reductase enzyme pathway (NREP) in anaerobic environments. This enzyme reduces nitrate to nitrite and has been shown to cometabolize chlorate to cytotoxic chlorite. The present investigations were performed to evaluate the susceptibility of a competitive exclusion culture (CE) to the experimental chlorate product (ECP). A commercially available CE product was evaluated for its nitrate reductase activity and therefore its chlorate sensitivity. Individual isolates (in triplicate) were cultured in 10 mL of Viande Levure broth containing 5 mM sodium nitrate or 10 mM sodium chlorate. Bacterial growth (optical density at 625 nm) was measured and 1-mL aliquots were removed concurrently for colorimetric determination of nitrate content at 0, 3, 6, and 24 h. Of the 15 different facultative strains, 11 had slight NREP utilization, 3 had moderate NREP utilization, and the remainder were NREP negative (with slight and moderate NREP utilization: >0.1 to <1.0 mM and >1.0 mM nitrate used within 6 h, respectively). Of the obligate anaerobes evaluated, 3 had slight NREP utilization and the remainder were NREP negative. In vivo studies utilizing both products (CE and ECP) in a horizontal transmission challenge model (seeders + contacts) showed significant reductions in Salmonella from 5.37 to 1.76 log10 cfu/g and 3.94 to 0.07 log10 cfu/g, respectively. The combined effect of the CE culture and an ECP are effective in killing these food-borne pathogens.

Anaerobic degradation of solid material: importance of initiation centers for methanogenesis, mixing intensity, and 2D distributed model.Batch anaerobic codigestion of municipal household solid waste (MHSW) and digested manure in mesophilic conditions was carried out. The different waste-to-biomass ratios and intensity of mixing were studied theoretically and experimentally. The experiments showed that when organic loading was high, intensive mixing resulted in acidification and failure of the process, while low mixing intensity was crucial for successful digestion. However, when loading was low, mixing intensity had no significant effect on the process. We hypothesized that mixing was preventing establishment of methanogenic zones in the reactor space. The methanogenic zones are important to withstand inhibition due to development of acids formed during acidogenesis. The 2D distributed models of symmetrical cylinder reactor are presented based on the hypothesis of the necessity of a minimum size of methanogenic zones that can propagate and establish a good methanogenic environment. The model showed that at high organic loading rate spatial separation of the initial methanogenic centers from active acidogenic areas is the key factor for efficient conversion of solids to methane. The initial level of methanogenic biomass in the initiation centers is a critical factor for the survival of these centers. At low mixing, most of the initiation methanogenic centers survive and expand over the reactor volume. However, at vigorous mixing the initial methanogenic centers are reduced in size, averaged over the reactor volume, and finally dissipate. Using fluorescence in situ hybridization, large irregular cocci of microorganisms were observed in the case with minimal mixing, while in the case with high stirring mainly dead cells were found.

A hemoglobin based oxygen carrier, bovine polymerized hemoglobin (HBOC-201) versus Hetastarch (HEX) in an uncontrolled liver injury hemorrhagic shock swine model with delayed evacuation.As HBOC-201 improves outcome in animals with hemorrhagic shock (HS), we compared HBOC-201 and HEX (used by U.S. military special operations forces) in a swine model of delayed evacuation and uncontrolled HS.
Twenty-four Yucatan pigs underwent a grade III liver injury and were resuscitated with HBOC-201, HEX, or no fluid (NON). Additional infusions were given for hypotension or tachycardia. After 4 hours, the liver was repaired; IV fluids and blood transfusions were administered. Pigs were monitored for 72 hours.
Survival was 7/8, 1/8, and 1/8 in HBOC-201-, HEX-, and NON-resuscitated pigs, respectively. Compared with HEX, HBOC-201 pigs had higher systemic and pulmonary artery pressures and had comparable cardiac outputs, but were less tachycardic. Transcutaneous tissue oxygenation was restored more rapidly in HBOC-201 pigs, there was a trend to lower lactic acid, and base deficit was less. HBOC-201 pigs had lower fluid requirements, higher urine output, and lower blood loss than HEX pigs.
Despite evidence of vasoactivity, HBOC-201 more effectively stabilized tissue oxygenation, reversed anaerobic metabolism, decreased bleeding, and increased survival in comparison with HEX. If confirmed in clinical trials, these data suggest that for the resuscitation of combat casualties with delayed evacuation and uncontrolled HS due to solid organ injury, HBOC-201 is a superior low-volume resuscitative fluid.

Behaviour of endocrine disrupting chemicals during the treatment of municipal sewage sludge.Agricultural application of municipal sewage sludge has been emotionally discussed in the last decades, because the latter contains endocrine disrupting chemicals (EDCs) and other organic micropollutants with unknown fate and risk potential. Bisphenol A (BPA) was chosen as a model substance to investigate the influence of sludge conditioning on the end-concentration of EDCs in sludge. Adsorption studies with radioactive-labelled BPA showed that more than 75% BPA in anaerobically digested sludge is bound to solids (log Kd = 2.09-2.30; log Koc = 2.72-3.11). Sludge conditioning with polymer or iron (III) chloride alone had no influence on the adsorption of BPA. After conditioning with iron (III) chloride and calcium hydroxide desorption of BPA took place. Apparently, it occurred due to the deprotonation of BPA (pKa= 10.3) as the pH-value reached 12.4 during the process. The same behaviour is expected for other phenolic EDCs with similar pKa (nonylphenol, 17beta-estradiol, estron, estriol, 17alpha-ethinylestradiol). This study shows high affinity of BPA to the anaerobically digested sludge and importance of conditioning in the elimination of EDCs during the sludge treatment. Addition of polymer is favourable in the case of sludge incineration. Conditioning with iron (III) chloride and calcium hydroxide shows advantages for the use of sludge as fertiliser.

The pig caecum model: a suitable tool to study the intestinal metabolism of flavonoids.Pig caecum was used under anaerobic conditions to metabolize flavonoids from several classes, i.e., chrysin 1, naringenin 2, quercetin 3, and hesperetin 4. Whereas chrysin 1 was not converted by the pig intestinal flora under the experimental conditions used, naringenin 2 was transformed to 3-(4-hydroxyphenyl)-propionic acid and 3-phenylpropionic acid. Quercetin 3 was metabolized to phloroglucinol, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and 3,4-dihydroxytoluene. Hesperetin 4 was degraded via eriodictyol to 3-(3-hydroxyphenyl)-propionic acid and phloroglucinol. Structural elucidation of the formed metabolites was performed by high-performance liquid chromatography--diode array detection (HPLC-DAD) as well as HPLC-electrospray ionization--mass spectrometry (ESI-MS (MS)) and high resolution gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (HRGC-MS) analyses. The time course of microbial conversion of 2-4 was determined by HPLC-DAD analysis, revealing slow degradation of 2 and rapid transformation of 3 and 4. The results lead to the conclusion that the pig caecum model is a suitable ex vivo model for studying the intestinal degradation of flavonoids.

Monitoring the biological activity of the composting process: Oxygen uptake rate (OUR), respirometric index (RI), and respiratory quotient (RQ).Composting of several organic wastes of different chemical composition (source-separated organic fraction of municipal solid waste, dewatered raw sludge, dewatered anaerobically digested sludge and paper sludge) was carried out under controlled conditions to study the suitability of different biological indexes (oxygen uptake rate, respirometric index, and respiratory quotient) to monitor the biological activity of the composting process. Among the indexes tested, oxygen uptake rate (also referred to as dynamic respirometric index) provided the most reliable values of microbial activity in a compost environment. On the other hand, values of the static respirometric index measured at process temperature, especially in the early stages of the composting process, were significantly lower than those of the dynamic index, which was probably due to oxygen diffusion limitations present in static systems. Both static and dynamic indexes were similar during the maturation phase. Static respirometric index measured at 37 degrees C should not be used with samples obtained during the thermophilic phase, since it resulted in an underestimation of the respiration values. Respiratory quotient presented only slight variations when changing the process temperature or the waste considered, and its use should be restricted to ensure aerobic conditions in the composting matrix.

Clearance of human-pathogenic viruses from sludge: study of four stabilization processes by real-time reverse transcription-PCR and cell culture.Sludges derived from wastewater treatment are foul-smelling, biologically unstable substances. As well as containing numerous pathogenic microorganisms, they also consist of organic matter that can be used as agricultural fertilizer. Legislation nevertheless requires sludges to be virologically tested prior to spreading by the counting of infectious enterovirus particles. This method, based on culture of enterovirus on BGM cells, is lengthy and not very sensitive. The aim of this study was to propose an alternative method of genome quantification for all enteroviruses that is applicable to verifying the elimination of viruses in complex samples such as sludges. Our complete protocol was compared to the official method, consisting of enterovirus enumeration with the most probable number of cythopathic unit (MPNCU) assay through the study of four stabilization procedures: liming, composting, heat treatment, and mesophile anaerobic digestion. Enterovirus quantities at the start of the stabilization procedures were between 37 and 288 MPNCU/g on the one scale and between 4 and 5 log genome copies/g on the other. It was shown that all procedures except mesophile anaerobic digestion were highly effective in the elimination of enterovirus particles and genomes in wastewater sludges. Reduction of viruses by mesophile anaerobic digestion was by only 1 log (infectious particles and genomes). In conclusion, stabilization processes can indeed be checked by virological quality control of sludges with gene amplification. However, the infectivity of genomes needs to be confirmed with cell culture or a correlation model if the virological risk inherent in the agricultural use of such sludges is to be fully addressed.

Modelling of the production of gaseous by-products in anaerobic digestion.Goal of the EU-Project AMONCO (Advanced Prediction, Monitoring and Controlling of Anaerobic Digestion Processes Behaviour towards Biogas Usage in Fuel Cells) is demonstration of the practical use of biogas in fuel cells. The right precondition is a biogas quality which fits into the fuel cells tolerances. Therefore the mission of the workgroup Environmental biotechnology is to control anaerobic digestion in a way that production of potential harmful by-products for fuel cells is reduced. A good understanding of the production of these by products is essential for an applicable decision support tool. This poster presents the modelling of hydrogen sulfide by means of hierarchical neural networks and a classical mathematical method.

Optimized biogas-fermentation by neural network control.In this work several feed-forward back-propagation neural networks (FFBP) were trained in order to model, and subsequently control, methane production in anaerobic digesters. To produce data for the training of the neural nets, four anaerobic continuous stirred tank reactors (CSTR) were operated in steady-state conditions at organic loading rates (Br) of about 2 kg x m(-3) x d(-1) chemical oxygen demand (COD), and disturbed by pulse-like increase of the organic loading rate. For the pulses additional carbon sources were added to the basic feed (surplus- and primary sludge) to simulate cofermentation and to increase the COD. Measured parameters were: gas composition, methane production rate, volatile fatty acid concentration, pH, redox potential, volatile suspended solids and COD of feed and effluent. A hierarchical system of neural nets was developed and embedded in a Decision Support System (DSS). A 3-3-1 FFBP simulated the pH with a regression coefficient of 0.82. A 9-3-3 FFBP simulated the volatile fatty acid concentration in the sludge with a regression coefficient of 0.86. And a 9-3-2 FFBP simulated the gas production and gas composition with a regression coefficient of 0.90 and 0.80 respectively. A lab-scale anaerobic CSTR controlled by this tool was able to maintain a methane concentration of about 60% at a rather high gas production rate of between 5 to 5.6 m3 x m(-3) x d(-1).

Application of multi-wavelength fluorometry for on-line monitoring of an anaerobic digestion process.This work examined the use of multi-wavelength fluorometry for on-line monitoring of an anaerobic digestion process. Experiments were carried out in a laboratory-scale anaerobic digestor fed with either synthetic or agricultural (cheese factory) wastewater. An in-line fiber optic probe installed in the external recirculation loop of the reactor was used to acquire fluorescence spectra with an interval of 5-10 min. The spectra were compared with analytical measurements taken at the same time to develop regression models, which were then used to predict concentrations of chemical oxygen demand, volatile fatty acids, and other key process parameters. A comparison of partial least squares (PLS), nonlinear principal components regression, and step-wise regression models on an independent set of data showed that the PLS model gave the best prediction accuracy.

Surgical manipulation of the intestine results in quantitative and qualitative alterations in luminal Escherichia coli.To look at the qualitative and quantitative changes in the luminal bacterial flora in response to surgical manipulation of the small intestine.
The barrier function of the intestine is compromised in pathologic conditions, such as shock, trauma, or surgical stress. Our earlier work has shown that surgical manipulation results in oxidative stress in the intestinal mucosa leading to permeability alterations.
Studies were done on rats, which were randomly divided into four groups (n = 8): group I, control, group II, III, IV different time periods, such as 8, 12, and 24 hours after surgical manipulation, which was simulated by opening the abdominal wall and handling the intestine. The cecal wall and cecal luminal contents were harvested under sterile conditions and processed for quantitation for aerobes and anaerobes. Adherence assays using Hep-2 cells were carried out on Escherichia coli isolated under different experimental conditions. In addition, control E. coli were exposed to superoxide or hydrogen peroxide, followed by subculture and adherence studies.
Surgical manipulation of the intestine resulted in qualitative and quantitative alterations in the aerobic bacteria. There was an increase in the number and relative proportion of E. coli in the cecal flora, and there was also an increase in adherence of E. coli to cecal mucosa, which was confirmed by in vitro bacterial adherence studies with HEp-2 cells. These changes were maximum at 12 hours following surgical manipulation and by 24 hours, this came back to control pattern. Control E. coli after in vitro exposure to oxidants also showed increased adherence.
These studies suggest that oxidative stress in the mucosa following surgical manipulation results in alterations in the luminal bacteria leading to increased bacterial adherence onto mucosal epithelium, which may contribute to postsurgical complications.

Bioenergy conversion studies of organic fraction of MSW: kinetic studies and gas yield--organic loading relationships for process optimisation.Batch digestion of municipal garbage was carried out for 100 days at room temperature (26+/-4 degrees C; average temperature 25 degrees C) and at ambient temperature (32+/-10 degrees C; average temperature 29 degrees C) conditions for total solids concentrations varying between 45 and 135 g/l. A first order model based on the availability of substrate as the limiting factor was used to perform the kinetic studies of batch anaerobic digestion system. Effect of organic solids concentration and digestion time on biogas yield was studied and mass and energy balance analysis was conducted for batch digestion. The net bioenergy yield from municipal garbage and corresponding bioprocess conversion efficiency over the length of the digestion time were observed to be 12,528 kJ/kg volatile solids and 84.51% respectively. The methane content of the biogas generated from the reactors was in the range of 62-72% with the overall average methane content of the biogas, computed over the total digestion period was 65 vol%.

Treatability and kinetics studies of mesophilic aerobic biodegradation of high oil and grease pet food wastewater.In this work, batch activated sludge studies were investigated for the treatment of raw pet food wastewater characterized by oil and grease concentrations of 50,000-66,000 mg/L, COD and BOD concentrations of 100,000 and 80,000 mg/L, respectively, as well as effluent from an existing anaerobic digester treating the aforementioned wastewater. A pre-treatment process, dissolved air flotation (DAF) achieved 97-99% reduction in O&G to about 400-800 mg/L, which is still atypically high for AS. The batch studies were conducted using a 4-L bioreactor at room temperature (21 degrees C) under different conditions. The experimental results showed for the DAF pretreated effluent, 92% COD removal efficiency can be achieved by using conventional activated sludge system at a 5 days contact time and applied initial soluble COD to biomass ratio of 1.17 mg COD/mg VSS. Similarly for the digester effluent at average oil and grease concentrations of 13,500 mg/L, activated sludge affected 63.7-76.2% soluble COD removal at 5 days. The results also showed that all kinetic data best conformed to the zero order biodegradation model with a low biomass specific maximum substrate utilization rate of 0.168 mg COD/mg VSS day reflecting the slow biodegradability of the wastewater even after 99% removal of oil and grease.

Numerical analysis of the anaerobic co-digestion of the organic fraction from municipal solid waste and wastewater: prediction of the possible performances at Olmeto plant in Perugia (Italy).Anaerobic digestion is mainly used for sewage sludge stabilization and for treatment of waste that has a high organic content. It also represents a powerful method for obtaining energy by means of natural gas production. Co-digestion particularly combines different organic substrates to generate a homogeneous mixture as input to the anaerobic reactor in order to increase process performance. Reactions kinetics and knowledge of process analysis represent the keys for good planning and correct management. In this paper a model to simulate the main reactions involved in anaerobic co-digestion is presented. The model was created to analyse the possible performance of the treatment plant in Olmeto, Marsciano (Perugia) in Italy. The plant is still in an experimental phase with regard to the co-digestion process and numerical simulations represent a useful tool during development of the correct management procedures for the operational phase and a good methodoly for addressing further pilot plant experiments.

Post-traumatic inflammatory response: perhaps a succession of phases with a nutritional purpose.Post-traumatic inflammatory response, whether this be local or systemic, is considered to be the succession of three functional phases called nervous, immune and endocrine, that could have a nutritional significance. In the nervous phase, ischemia-reperfusion, which causes interstitial and cellular edema, is produced. Both types of edema could represent an ancestral mechanism to feed the cells by diffusion. During the immune phase, the tissues are infiltrated by inflammatory cells and bacteria. Then, extracellular digestion, by enzyme release (fermentation), and intracellular digestion by phagocytosis could be associated with a hypothetical trophic capacity for the neighbouring cells. Finally, in the late or endocrine phase nutrition mediated by the blood capillaries is established. In these three successive phases the inflammatory response goes on from an anaerobic metabolism (ischemia) through a metabolism characterized by a defective oxygen use (reperfusion, oxidative burst and heat hyperproduction) to an oxidative metabolism (oxidative phosphorilation) with a correct use of oxygen to produce usable energy. This type of metabolism is characterized by a large production of ATP, which is used to drive specialized multiple cellular processes. Since the nervous, immune and endocrine phases of the inflammatory response go from ischemia to the development of an oxidative metabolism, It is also tempting to speculate on whether the body reproduces the successive stages by which life passes from its origin without oxygen until it develops an effective, although costly, system for the use of oxygen every time we suffer post-traumatic acute inflammation.

Assessment of graded intestinal hypoperfusion and reperfusion using continuous saline tonometry in a porcine model.To evaluate effects of graded intestinal hypoperfusion and reperfusion on intestinal metabolic parameters as assessed by a modified continuous saline tonometry technique.
Twelve barbiturate-anaesthetized female pigs.
Measurements were performed prior to and during three predefined levels of superior mesenteric mean arterial blood pressure (P(SMA) 70, 50 and 30 mmHg, respectively, each 80 min long), obtained by an adjustable clamp around the origin of the superior mesenteric artery, and during reperfusion. We continuously measured jejunal mucosal perfusion (laser Doppler flowmetry), jejunal tissue oxygen tension (PO(2TISSUE); microoximetry) and intramucosal PCO(2) (continuous saline tonometry) and calculated net intestinal lactate production, mesenteric oxygenation, PCO(2) gap (jejunal mucosal PCO(2)-arterial PCO(2)) and pHi.
At P(SMA) 70 and 50 mmHg mesenteric oxygen uptake and net lactate production remained unaltered, in spite of decreased oxygen delivery. At these P(SMA) levels PCO(2) gap increased, while pHi and PO(2TISSUE) decreased. At P(SMA) 30 mmHg pronounced increases in PCO(2) gap and mesenteric net lactate production as well as marked decreases in PO(2TISSUE) and pHi were demonstrated. Data indicate absence of anaerobic conditions at an intestinal perfusion pressure (IPP)> or =41 mmHg, a pHi> or =7.22 or PCO(2) gap< or =15.8 mmHg.
Continuous saline tonometry detected intestinal ischemia as induced by graded reductions in IPP. A threshold could be defined above which intestinal ischemia does not occur.

Differential fermentation of glucose-based carbohydrates in vitro by human faecal bacteria--a study of pyrodextrinised starches from different sources.Pyrodextrins, modified starches produced by heat/acid treatment, have been used extensively in the paper industry. Recently, pyrodextrinisation has been recognised as a way of producing a "resistant starch" that is water-soluble and has non-starch linkages. However, a full characterisation of the fermentation properties of pyrodextrins has not been reported.
To evaluate the effect of pyrodextrinisation on the fermentation characteristics of starches, prepared from Venezuelan crops, in a simple in vitro model of the human colon.
Potato, lentil and cocoyam pyrodextrins were produced using heat (140 degrees C for 3 h) and hydrochloric acid as catalyst (1.82 g/kg starch). Then, both native and modified starches were pre-digested with pepsin and pancreatic enzymes and their resistant components fermented anaerobically using human faeces as inocula for 24 h. Short-chain fatty acids (SCFA), pH, residual starch and carbohydrate in the cultures were measured.
More than 69% of initial carbohydrate disappeared from both pre-digested native and pyroconverted starch cultures. More than 6.8 and 10.0 mmol net SCFA per gram carbohydrate were produced from pre-digested native and pyrodextrinised starches, respectively. In cultures of predigested pyrodextrins, the molar ratio for propionate doubled, whereas the ratio of acetate decreased by 25% when compared with pre-digested native starches. The ratio of butyrate did not change.
The mechanism for the change in SCFA profile is unclear, but may be related to solubility and/or presence of nonstarch linkages. The presence of these bonds may modify the accessibility/affinity of bacterial enzymes to the modified starch structure.

Anaerobic digestion and methane generation potential of rose residue in batch reactors.In the study, anaerobic digestion of residues from rose oil industry was investigated by using a laboratory scale completely mixed batch reactor in volume of 10 L and 4 small reactors in volume of 400 mL. Ten liters reactor isolated with a water jacket and 0.4 L reactors settled into a water bath were operated at 35 +/- 1 degrees C. The study supplies biochemical methane potential of hydrolyzed and original residues. Experimental results showed that hydrolyzed rose residue produced a bit more methane than original residue. Methane production results were analyzed with first-order and Chen&Hashimoto's models, and Chen&-Hashimoto's model was found to be more suitable than first-order kinetic model.

Nitrite accumulation followed by denitrification using sequencing batch reactor.Biological ammonia-nitrogen removal utilizes two distinct processes, nitrification and denitrification. In nitrification, ammonia oxidizes to nitrite then to nitrate. In this study, elimination of nitrite oxidation to nitrate step was attempted in order to directly remove nitrite to nitrogen gas by denitrification. For this study the supernatant from an anaerobic digester was used as an ammonia source and a sequencing batch reactor (SBR) was employed. Emphasis was given to the evaluation of the operational factors affecting nitrite accumulation and the elucidation of kinetics for biological nitrification and denitrification. Accumulation of nitrite in the nitrification process was achieved by suppressing the growth of Nitrobacter, a nitrite oxidizer, by loading high concentration ammonia supernatant immediately after all ammonia in the previous loading was oxidized to nitrite. Nitrite oxidation was taking place as the solid retention time (SRT) was increased from 2.5 days to 3.0 days in a continuously aerated SBR mode with daily feeding. However, nitrite accumulation was achieved even at longer SRT of 5 days when the aeration and non-aeration periods were appropriately combined and the non-aeration period can be used for denitrification of the accumulated nitrite with a carbon source supplied.

Muscularis inflammation and the loss of interstitial cells of Cajal in the endothelin ETB receptor null rat.Endothelin receptor null rats [ETB(-/-)] are a model for long-segment Hirschsprung's disease. These animals have significant intestinal distension (megaileum) proximal to a constricted region of the gastrointestinal tract lacking enteric ganglia. Experiments were performed to determine the pathophysiological changes that occur in these animals and to examine the tunica muscularis as a unique, immunologically active compartment. We observed abnormal intestinal flora in ETB(-/-) rats, which included a marked increase in gram-negative aerobes (Enterobacteriaceae) and anaerobes (Bacteroidaceae) in the distended region of the small intestine. Histochemical observations showed that neutrophilic infiltration was rarely or not observed, but the number of ED2 positive macrophages was increased in the tunica muscularis. Expression of IL-1beta and IL-6 mRNA was also significantly increased, and the level of CD14 (LPS receptors) were increased significantly in the tunica muscularis. Spontaneous phasic contractions were irregular in the distended intestinal regions of ETB(-/-) rats, and this was associated with an increased number of macrophages and damage to interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC) as revealed by using Kit-like immunoreactivity and electron microscopy. These results suggest that ED2-positive resident macrophages may play an important role in the inflammation of tunica muscularis in ETB(-/-) rats. Increased numbers and activation of macrophages may result in damage to ICC networks leading to disordered intestinal rhythmicity in regions of the gut in which myenteric ganglia are intact.

Strategies for exploration of freeze responsive gene expression: advances in vertebrate freeze tolerance.Winter survival for many cold-blooded species involves freeze tolerance, the capacity to endure the freezing of a high percentage of total body water as extracellular ice. The wood frog (Rana sylvatica) is the primary model animal used for studies of vertebrate freeze tolerance and current studies in my lab are focused on the freeze-induced changes in gene expression that support freezing survival. Using cDNA library screening, we have documented the freeze-induced up-regulation of a number of genes in wood frogs including both identifiable genes (fibrinogen, ATP/ADP translocase, and mitochondrial inorganic phosphate carrier) and novel proteins (FR10, FR47, and Li16). All three novel proteins share in common the presence of hydrophobic regions that may indicate that they have an association with membranes, but apart from that each shows unique tissue distribution patterns, stimulation by different signal transduction pathways and responses to two of the component stresses of freezing, anoxia, and dehydration. The new application of cDNA array screening technology is opening up a whole new world of possibilities in the search for molecular mechanisms that underlie freezing survival. Array screening of hearts from control versus frozen frogs hints at the up-regulation of adenosine receptor signaling for the possible mediation of metabolic rate suppression, hypoxia inducible factor mediated adjustments of anaerobic metabolism, natriuretic peptide regulation of fluid dynamics, enhanced glucose transporter capacity for cryoprotectant accumulation, defenses against the accumulation of advanced glycation end products, and improved antioxidant defenses as novel parts of natural freeze tolerance that remain to be explored.

Performance and kinetic evaluation of the anaerobic digestion of two-phase olive mill effluents in reactors with suspended and immobilized biomass.A lab-scale study was conducted on the mesophilic anaerobic digestion of two-phase olive mill effluents constituted by the mixture of the wash waters derived from the initial cleansing of the olives and those obtained in the washing and purification of virgin olive oil. The digestion was conducted in two continuously stirred tank reactors, one with biomass immobilized on Bentonite (reactor B) and other with suspended biomass used as control (reactor C). The reactors B and C operated satisfactorily between hydraulic retention times of 25.0 and 4.0 days and 25.0 and 5.0 days, respectively. Total chemical oxygen demand (TCOD) efficiencies in the ranges of 88.8-72.1% and 87.9-71.2% were achieved in the reactors with immobilized and suspended biomass, respectively, at organic loading rates of between 0.86 and 5.38 g TCOD/ld and 0.86-4.30 g TCOD/ld, respectively. On comparing both reactors for the same OLRs applied, it was observed that the reactor with support was always more efficient and stable showing higher TCOD, SCOD removal efficiencies and lower VFA/alkalinity ratio values than those found in the control reactor. A mass (TCOD) balance around the reactors allowed the methane yield coefficient, Y(G/S), to be obtained, which gave values of 0.31 and 0.30l CH(4)/g TCOD(removed) for reactors B and C, respectively. The cell maintenance coefficients,k(m), obtained by means of this balance were found to be 0.0024 and 0.0036 g TCOD(removed)/g VSSd, respectively. The volumetric methane production rates correlated with the biodegradable TCOD concentration through an equation of the Michaelis-Menten type for the two reactors studied. This proposed model predicted the behavior of the reactors very accurately showing deviations lower than 10% between the experimental and theoretical values of methane production rates.

Modeling solid waste decomposition.The hydrolysis rate coefficients of sorted municipal waste were evaluated from the biochemical methane potential tests using non-linear regression. A distributed mathematical model of anaerobic digestion of rich (food) and lean (non-food) solid wastes with greatly different rates of polymer hydrolysis/acidogenesis was developed to describe the balance between the rates of hydrolysis/acidogenesis and methanogenesis. The model was calibrated using previously published experimental data [Biores. Technol. 52 (1995) 245] obtained upon various initial food waste loadings. Simulations of one- and two-stage digestion systems were carried out. The results showed that initial spatial separation of food waste and inoculum enhances methane production and waste degradation in a one-stage solid-bed digester at high waste loading. A negative effect of vigorously mixing at high waste loading reported in some papers was discussed. It was hypothesized that the initiation methanogenic centers developing in time and expanding in space under minimal mixing conditions might be a key factor for efficient anaerobic conversion of solid waste into methane.

Physical simulation for low-energy astrobiology environmental scenarios.Speculations about the extent of life of independent origin and the potential for sustaining Earth-based life in subsurface environments on both Europa and Mars are of current and relevant interest. Theoretical modeling based on chemical energetics has demonstrated potential options for viable biochemical metabolism (metabolic pathways) in these types of environments. Also, similar environments on Earth show microbial activity. However, actual physical simulation testing of specific environments is required to confidently determine the interplay of various physical and chemical parameters on the viability of relevant metabolic pathways. This testing is required to determine the potential to sustain life in these environments on a specific scenario by scenario basis. This study examines the justification, design, and fabrication of, as well as the culture selection and screening for, a psychrophilic/halophilic/anaerobic digester. This digester is specifically designed to conform to physical testing needs of research relating to potential extent physical environments on Europa and other planetary bodies in the Solar System. The study is a long-term effort and is currently in an early phase, with only screening-level data at this time. Full study results will likely take an additional 2 years. However, researchers in electromagnetic biosignature and in situ instrument development should be aware of the study at this time, as they are invited to participate in planning for future applications of the digester facility.

Critical assessment of the methods used for detection of bacterial translocation.Bacterial translocation (BT) can be demonstrated by blood and lymph node cultures and also by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) detection of DNA of enteric bacteria. Aiming at investigating BT after gastrointestinal operations we assessed it on two endpoints after ischemia-reperfusion (IR) or sham operation (SO).
2 groups of 200-g Brown Norway male rats were treated as follows: SO animals ( n=12) had laparotomy alone and IR animals ( n=12) had successively 15 min clamping of the portal vein and the mesenteric artery. Half the animals in each group were killed on postoperative (p.o.) day 2 the other half on p.o. day 7. Under sterile conditions regional lymph nodes and vena cava and portal vein blood samples were recovered and cultured for aerobes and anaerobes. Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase DNA was assessed in blood samples by PCR. The findings in the two groups were compared by means of chi(2) tests.
Post-hepatic (peripheral blood) BT was detected by cultures of gram-negative bacteria in 16% and 0% of SO and IR animals, respectively, on p.o. day 2 and in 16% and 50% on p.o. day 7. These differences were not significant (ns). E. coli DNA was found in one SO rat. Pre-hepatic BT (portal blood and/or lymph nodes) of gram-negative bacteria was found in 16% and 33%, respectively, on day 2 and in 16% and 16% on day 7 (ns). However, if gram-positive cultures were taken into account, the figures were 66% and 66% on day 2 and 66% and 83% on day 7 (ns). No anaerobes could be cultured.
(1) BT is frequent in surgically manipulated animals. (2) To limit the assessment of BT to Enterobacteriaceae is probably misleading, since consistent amounts of gram-positive bacteria are found in the pre-hepatic territory. (3) PCR tests limited to E. coli DNA alone are likely incomplete. (4) Short periods of vascular clamping do not increase BT on the two endpoints selected in comparison with SO animals.

Thermal and enzymatic pretreatment of sludge containing phthalate esters prior to mesophilic anaerobic digestion.The present study aimed at investigating the effect of thermal pretreatment of sludge at 70 degrees C on the anaerobic degradation of three commonly found phthalic acid esters (PAE): di-ethyl phthalate (DEP), di-butyl phthalate (DBP), and di-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP). Also, the enzymatic treatment at 28 degrees C with a commercial lipase was studied as a way to enhance PAE removal. Pretreatment at 70 degrees C of the sludge containing PAE negatively influenced the anaerobic biodegradability of phthalate esters at 37 degrees C. The observed reduction of PAE biodegradation rates after the thermal pretreatment was found to be proportional to the PAE solubility in water: the higher the solubility, the higher the percentage of the reduction (DEP > DBP > DEHP). PAE were slowly degraded during the pretreatment at 70 degrees C, yet this was probably due to physicochemical reactions than to microbial/biological activity. Therefore, thermal pretreatment of sludge containing PAE should be either avoided or combined with a treatment step focusing on PAE reduction. On the other hand, enzymatic treatment was very efficient in the removal of PAE. The enzymatic degradation of DBP, DEP, and DEHP could be one to two orders of magnitude faster than under normal mesophilic anaerobic conditions. Moreover, the enzymatic treatment resulted in the shortest half-life of DEHP in sludge reported so far. Our study further showed that enzymatic treatment with lipases can be applied to raw sludge and its efficiency does not depend on the solids concentration.

Molecular microbiology of gut bacteria: genetic diversity and community structure analysis.Recently developed molecular biology approaches make possible the detailed genetic, taxonomic and ecological examination of microorganisms from various habitats. Animal gut represents one of the most complex microbial ecosystems with a large degree of microbial biodiversity present. Bacteria inhabiting the gut usually play important roles in metabolic transformations of substrates and sometimes, e.g. in ruminants, they make the basis for an obligate symbiosis with the host. Here we discuss molecular microbiology as a strategy for examination of gut bacteria, concentrating on a typical and in such environment dominant group of strictly anaerobic Gram-negative bacteria from the phylogenetic group Cytophaga/Flexibacter/Bacteroides. The bacteria from the genus Prevotella are the most abundant Gram-negative bacteria in the rumen and form a distinctive phylogenetic cluster, clearly separated from prevotellas isolated from other ecological niches. They may represent a good choice for a model organism in genetic manipulation experiments and for studies of gene transfer mechanisms taking place in the gut. The molecular tools for detection and monitoring of ruminal prevotellas are discussed.

Advances in biotreatment of acid mine drainage and biorecovery of metals: 2. Membrane bioreactor system for sulfate reduction.Several biotreatmemt techniques for sulfate conversion by the sulfate reducing bacteria (SRB) have been proposed in the past, however few of them have been practically applied to treat sulfate containing acid mine drainage (AMD). This research deals with development of an innovative polypropylene hollow fiber membrane bioreactor system for the treatment of acid mine water from the Berkeley Pit, Butte, MT, using hydrogen consuming SRB biofilms. The advantages of using the membrane bioreactor over the conventional tall liquid phase sparged gas bioreactor systems are: large microporous membrane surface to the liquid phase; formation of hydrogen sulfide outside the membrane, preventing the mixing with the pressurized hydrogen gas inside the membrane; no requirement of gas recycle compressor; membrane surface is suitable for immobilization of active SRB, resulting in the formation of biofilms, thus preventing washout problems associated with suspended culture reactors; and lower operating costs in membrane bioreactors, eliminating gas recompression and gas recycle costs. Information is provided on sulfate reduction rate studies and on biokinetic tests with suspended SRB in anaerobic digester sludge and sediment master culture reactors and with SRB biofilms in bench-scale SRB membrane bioreactors. Biokinetic parameters have been determined using biokinetic models for the master culture and membrane bioreactor systems. Data are presented on the effect of acid mine water sulfate loading at 25, 50, 75 and 100 ml/min in scale-up SRB membrane units, under varied temperatures (25, 35 and 40 degrees C) to determine and optimize sulfate conversions for an effective AMD biotreatment. Pilot-scale studies have generated data on the effect of flow rates of acid mine water (MGD) and varied inlet sulfate concentrations in the influents on the resultant outlet sulfate concentration in the effluents and on the number of SRB membrane modules needed for the desired sulfate conversion in those systems. The pilot-scale data indicate that the SRB membrane bioreactors systems can be applied toward field-scale biotreatment of AMD and for recovery of high purity metals and an agriculturally usable water.

Anaerobic degradation kinetics of a cholesteryl ester.The most important components of wool scouring effluent grease are esters of sterols. Cholesteryl palmitate (CP) is the main ester in this grease. In this paper, the influence of the ester concentration in the anaerobic digestion and the relative rate of the different degradation steps, are studied. The experiment was carried out to measure methane production in the anaerobic degradation of acetate, palmitic acid (PA) and CP. A first-order kinetic model was assumed for hydrolysis and Monod models were assumed for both the methanogenic and acetogenic steps. Maximum hydrolysis rate was found to be around 20 times faster than the maximum methanogenic reaction rate during the experience. The lanolin emulsion drop size effect was also evaluated employing fine and coarse stock lanolin emulsions and no adapted sludge. Concentrations of 13.7 to 4.6 gCOD x l(-1) were employed. In a previous study, the effect of palmitic acid emulsion size was found important when similar sludge was tested. When esters are degraded, a significant effect of drop size on the degradation rate was not found. The difference between CP and PA emulsions behavior could be due to the fact that cholesterol produced during the ester degradation has a protective effect on the sludge.

Automatic control of volatile fatty acids in anaerobic digestion using a fuzzy logic based approach.A control law based on fuzzy logic was developed and validated for an anaerobic wastewater treatment process. The controlled variable was the concentration of volatile fatty acids (VFA) in the reactor and the manipulated variable was the input flow rate. In order to use it as the input of the fuzzy sets, the controlled variable was treated using an algorithm of interpolation, extrapolation and filtering. The treatment of VFA values attempted to anticipate the behaviour of the variable and to avoid the inherent delay of the response, associated to the time constant of the system. Furthermore, the controlled variable derivative was used as a second input of the fuzzy sets to increase or decrease the speed of the control action. The control law was applied to a 0.948 m3 fixed-bed anaerobic reactor treating raw and diluted (1:2) industrial distillery vinasses. The validation was performed establishing different transient states between different set points in the range of 0.8 and 1.8 g VFA/l and different concentrations of the influent. The control law proved to be reliable supplying an adequate control action in terms of amplitude and velocity to achieve the desired set point for different types of perturbation and control purposes.

Role of urease enzymes in stability of a 10-species oral biofilm consortium cultivated in a constant-depth film fermenter.Using a 10-species oral biofilm consortium and defined mutants, we show that high-level capacity to generate ammonia from a common salivary substrate is needed to maintain community diversity. This model appears to be suitable for the study of the effects of individual genetic determinants on the ecology of oral biofilms.

Antibiotics with a selective aerobic or anaerobic spectrum have different therapeutic activities in various regions of the colon in interleukin 10 gene deficient mice.Multiple rodent models implicate resident intestinal bacteria in the pathogenesis of chronic immune mediated intestinal inflammation. Specific pathogen free (SPF) interleukin 10 gene deficient (IL-10(-/-)) mice develop colitis, which does not occur in the germ free (GF) state. We investigated whether broad or narrow spectrum antibiotics affect onset and progression of disease in various regions of IL-10(-/-) mice.
Metronidazole, ciprofloxacin, vancomycin-imipenem (50 mg/kg/day), or water (control) was administered orally before (prevention) or two weeks after (treatment) colonisation of GF IL-10(-/-) mice with SPF bacteria. After four weeks, colonic histology scores and cytokine production by colonic explants were determined. Caecal and colonic contents were collected for quantitative bacterial analysis.
In the prevention study, all antibiotics decreased inflammation in the caecum and colon. However, in the treatment study, ciprofloxacin and vancomycin-imipenem decreased caecal inflammation, and reduced Escherichia coli and Enterococcus faecalis concentrations, whereas only vancomycin-imipenem lowered direct microscopic bacterial counts. In contrast, metronidazole and vancomycin-imipenem reduced colonic injury and eliminated anaerobic bacteria, including Bacteroides spp.
Both narrow and broad spectrum antibiotics can prevent disease but treatment of established colitis is more selective. Ciprofloxacin is most effective in the treatment of caecal inflammation, metronidazole preferentially treats the colon, whereas vancomycin-imipenem definitively treats both regions. These results suggest that subsets of aerobic or anaerobic bacteria show regional differences in their capacity to mediate experimental colitis in IL-10(-/-) mice.

Early intrajejunal nutrition: bacterial translocation and gut barrier function of severe acute pancreatitis in dogs.To evaluate the effect of early intrajejunal nutrition in attenuating bacterial and/or endotoxin translocation and improving gut barrier function of severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) in dogs.
15 dogs were divided into parenteral nutrition (PN) group (7 dogs) and early intrajejunal nutrition (EIN) group (8). EIN was delivered nutrients via a needle jejunostomy catheter feeding at 48 h after operation. SAP model was induced by injecting 1 ml/kg of combined solution of 5% sodium taurocholate and 8000-10 000 BAEE units trypsin/ml into the pancreas via the pancreatic duct. Systemic blood samples were obtained before and 1, 3, 5, 7 d following SAP, and cultured by aerobic as well as anaerobic bacterial growth. Systemic plasma and portal vein endotoxin levels were quantified by the chromogenic limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL) technique. Portal vein blood and specimens of tissue from the mesenteriolum and mesocolon lymph nodes, lung, pulmonary portal lymph nodes, pancreatitistissue and periopancreas tissue were adopted before the experiment was finished. Aliquots of the homogenata were cultured as blood mentioned above to determine the magnitude of the bacteria. DNA, protein and the villi, the thickness of mucosa, and the whole bowel wall of the ileum and transverse colon were measured.
The study showed that the levels of systemic plasma endotoxin and the magnitude of bacterial translocation to the portal and systemic blood and distant organ were reduced significantly in the EIN group as compared with the TPN group. The contents of Protein and DNA, the height of villi, the thickness of mucosa and whole bowel wall of the ileum and transverse colon in the EIN group were higher than those in the PN group.
Our results suggested that EIN is safe and effective to be adopted by intrajejunal delivery of nutrients in SAP, decreases the occurrence of gut bacterial translocation, and improves the gut barrier function.

Thermal-alkaline solubilization of waste activated sludge as a pre-treatment stage for anaerobic digestion.This work studied the hydrolysis kinetics and the solubilization of waste activated sludge under a medium range temperature (50-90 degrees C) and pH in the alkaline region (8-11), as a pretreatment stage for anaerobic digestion. The hydrolysis rate for the solubilization of volatile suspended solids (VSS) followed a first-order rate. A linear polynomial hydrolysis model was derived from the experimental results leading to a satisfactory correlation between the hydrolysis rate coefficient, pH, and temperature. At pH 11 and a temperature of 90 degrees C the concentration of the VSS was 6.82%, the VSS reduction reached 45% within ten hours and at the same time the soluble COD was 70.000 mg/l and the total efficiency for methane production 0.28 l of CH4 per g of VSS loading.

Starch fermentation by faecal bacteria of infants, toddlers and adults: importance for energy salvage.Little is known of the degree to which the colon salvages energy through starch fermentation in young children. Using a simulated colonic environment, we aimed to account for the fate of fermented raw and cooked starch in two groups of young children and in adults.
A slurry was prepared from faecal samples from six infants (7-10 months), six toddlers (16-21 months) and seven adults (24-56 y). Each slurry was anaerobically incubated with raw or cooked maize starch in MacCartney bottles in a shaking water bath. Parallel incubations were stopped at 4 and 24 h. The headspace gas volume was analysed for CO(2) and methane. The culture supernatant was analysed for short-chain fatty acids (SCFA), lactate and residual starch.
Different patterns of fermentation were seen at 4 and 24 h. For raw starch, the production of SCFA decreased with subject age at 4 h but not at 24 h. With both substrates at 4 h, toddler stools produced significantly more CO(2) than infants or adults, but there were no statistical differences at 24 h. Methane was detected in three adults only. Lactate was detected mainly at 4 h in children.
The results suggest that fermentation, particularly of raw starch, is a more rapid process in young children than in adults. A highly efficient energy salvage process may occur in the colon of young children.

Effect of parenteral antibiotic administration on establishment of intestinal colonization in mice by Klebsiella pneumoniae strains producing extended-spectrum beta-lactamases.A mouse model was used to test the hypothesis that antibiotics with activity against anaerobes promote overgrowth of extended-spectrum beta-lactamase-producing Klebsiella pneumoniae strains in stool. Subcutaneous clindamycin consistently promoted establishment of high-density colonization, whereas piperacillin-tazobactam, ceftriaxone, and ceftazidime promoted colonization only when a large inoculum and/or more resistant strain was administered.

Modelling oral malodour in a longitudinal study.The aim of this study was to develop an in vitro model of the tongue microflora in order to assess anti-malodour compounds before clinical evaluation. Biofilms, derived from the tongue microflora, were grown in a constant depth film fermentor (CDFF) with nutrients supplied in the form of mucin- and serum-containing artificial saliva. Differential agars and a halimeter were used to determine the bacterial microflora and production of volatile sulphur compounds (VSCs), respectively. The resulting biofilms had a bacterial population which contained, on average, 29% streptococci, 48% Gram-negative anaerobes and 2.5% with an H2S-producing phenotype. When the biofilms were pulsed with either chlorhexidine or zinc acetate there was a reduction in the number of H2S-producing bacteria, however these counts subsequently recovered as pulsing continued. The generation of VSCs was correlated to the viable counts of the H2S-producing bacteria. By pulsing with anti-malodour compounds over time we observed a reduction in the quantity of VSCs produced and a change in the composition of the plaque to one which contained fewer H2S-producing bacteria.

Cellulosic waste degradation by rumen-enhanced anaerobic digestion.Anaerobic digestion of lignocellulosic material is carried out effectively in many natural microbial ecosystems including the rumen. A rumen-enhanced anaerobic sequencing batch reactor was used to investigate cellulose degradation to give analysis of overall process stoichiometry and rates of hydrolysis. The reactor achieved VFA production rates of 207-236 mg COD/L/h at a loading rate of 10 g/L/d. Overloading of the reactor resulted in elevated production of propionic acid, and on occasion, the presence of succinic acid. With improvements in mixing and solids wasting, the anaerobic sequencing batch reactor system could enable full-scale application of the process for treatment of cellulosic waste material.

A distributed model of solid waste anaerobic digestion: sensitivity analysis.A distributed model of anaerobic digestion of solid waste was developed to describe the balance between the rates of polymer hydrolysis and methanogenesis during the anaerobic conversion of rich and lean wastes in batch and continuous-flow reactors. Waste, volatile fatty acids (VFAs), methanogenic biomass and sodium concentrations are the model variables. Diffusion and advection of VFAs inhibiting both polymer hydrolysis and methanogenesis were considered. A sensitivity analysis by changing the key model parameter values was carried out. The model simulations showed that the effective distance between the areas of hydrolysis/acidogenesis and methanogenesis is very important. An initial spatial separation of rich waste and inoculum enhances the methane production and waste degradation at high waste loading if relatively low VFA diffusion into the methanogenic area is taking place. When both hydrolysis and methanogenesis are strongly inhibited by high levels of VFA, fluctuations in biomass concentration are thought to be responsible for initiating the expansion of methanogenic area over the reactor space.

Impacts of separate rejection water treatment on the overall plant performance.A separate rejection water treatment appears as a high-tech unit process which might be recommendable only for specific cases of an upgrading of an existing wastewater treatment plant. It is not the issue of this paper to consider a specific separate treatment process itself but to investigate the influence of such a process on the overall plant performance. A plant-wide model has been applied as an innovative tool to evaluate effects of the implemented sidestream strategy on the mainstream treatment. The model has been developed in the SIMBA environment and combines acknowledged mathematical descriptions of the activated sludge process (ASM1) and the anaerobic mesophilic digestion (Siegrist model). The model's calibration and validation was based on data from 5 years of operating experience of a full-scale rejection water treatment. The impact on the total N-elimination efficiency is demonstrated by detailed nitrogen mass flow schemes including the interactions between the wastewater and the sludge lane. Additionally limiting conditions due to dynamic N-return loads are displayed by the model's state variables.

Anaerobic treatability of high oil and grease rendering wastewater.This study evaluated the use of a new biosurfactant, BOD-Balance, derived from cactus for the treatment of oil-and-grease-laden rendering wastewater anaerobically. Batch laboratory experimental results and preliminary full-scale data are presented. The biosurfactant affected a significant increase in the COD degradation rate for the raw wastewater. However, after reduction of the oil and grease (O&G) by dissolved air flotation, the biosurfactant did not exhibit any advantages. Modeling of the data indicated that various COD fractions, i.e. both soluble and particulate as well as total COD at various testing conditions conformed well to both zero-order and first-order models. The biosurfactant affected a 164-238 and 164-247% increase in COD and particulate COD biodegradation rate for the raw wastewater. The reduction of O&G concentration to <800 mg/l increased total and soluble COD degradation rates by 106%. Results from the full-scale mesophilic anaerobic digestion system indicated that the addition of the biosurfactant at doses of 130-200 mg/l decreased O&G concentrations from 66,300 to 10,200 mg/l over a 2-month-period.

Environmental exposure assessment of fluoroquinolone antibacterial agents from sewage to soil.The behavior of fluoroquinolone antibacterial agents (FQs) during mechanical-biological wastewater treatment was studied by mass flow analysis. In addition, the fate of FQs in agricultural soils after sludge application was investigated. Concentrations of FQs in filtered wastewater (raw sewage, primary, secondary, and tertiary effluents) were determined using solid-phase extraction with mixed phase cation exchange disk cartridges and reversed-phase liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. FQs in suspended solids, sewage sludge (raw, excess, and anaerobically digested sludge), and sludge-treated soils were determined as described for the aqueous samples but preceded by accelerated solvent extraction. Wastewater treatment resulted in a reduction of the FQ mass flow of 88-92%, mainly due to sorption on sewage sludge. A sludge-wastewater partition coefficient (log Kd approximately 4) was calculated in the activated sludge reactors with a hydraulic residence time of about 8 h. No significant removal of FQs occurred under methanogenic conditions of the sludge digesters. These results suggest sewage sludge as the main reservoir of FQ residues and outline the importance of sludge management strategies to determine whether most of the human-excreted FQs enter the environment. Field experiments of sludge-application to agricultural land confirmed the long-term persistence of trace amounts of FQs in sludge-treated soils and indicated a limited mobility of FQs into the subsoil.

Kinetics of thermophilic, anaerobic oxidation of straight and branched chain butyrate and valerate.The degradation kinetics of normal and branched chain butyrate and valerate are important in protein-fed anaerobic systems, as a number of amino acids degrade to these organic acids. Including activated and primary wastewater sludge digesters, the majority of full-scale systems digest feeds with a significant or major fraction of COD as protein. This study assesses the validity of using a common kinetic parameter set and biological catalyst to represent butyrate, n-valerate, and i-valerate degradation in dynamic models. The i-valerate degradation stoichiometry in a continuous, mixed population system is also addressed, extending previous pure-culture and batch studies. A previously published mathematical model was modified to allow competitive uptake of i-valerate, and used to model a thermophilic manure digester operated over 180 days. The digester was periodically pulsed with straight and branched chain butyrate and valerate. Parameters were separately optimized to describe butyrate, i-valerate, and n-valerate degradation, as well as a lumped set optimized for all three substrates, and nonlinear, correlated parameter spaces estimated using an F distribution in the objective function (J). Each parameter set occupied mutually exclusive parameter spaces, indicating that all were statistically different from each other. However, qualitatively, the influence on model outputs was similar, and the lumped set would be reasonable for mixed acid digestion. The main characteristic not represented by Monod kinetics was a delay in i-valerate uptake, and was compensated for by a decreased maximum uptake rate (k(m)). Therefore, the kinetics need modification if fed predominantly i-valerate. Butyrate (i- and n-) and n-valerate could be modeled using stoichiometry consistent with beta-oxidation degradation pathways. However, i-valerate produced acetate only, supporting the stoichiometry of a reaction determined by other researchers in pure culture. Therefore, lumping i-valerate stoichiometry with that of n-valerate will not allow good system representation, especially when the feed consists of proteins high in leucine (which produces i-valerate), and the modified model structure and stoichiometry as proposed here should be used. This requires no additional kinetic parameters and one additional dynamic concentration state variable (i-valerate) in addition to the variables in the base model.

A multivariate biomarker-based model predicting population-level responses of Daphnia magna.A multivariate model is proposed relating short-term biomarker measurements in Daphnia magna to chronic effects (21-d exposure) occurring at the population level (time to death, mean brood size, mean total young per female, intrinsic rate of natural increase, net reproductive rate, and growth). The results of the short-term exposure (48 h-96 h) to eight model toxicants (cadmium, chromium, mercury, tributyl tin, linear alkylsulfonic acid, sodium pentachlorophenolate, lindane, and 2,4-dichlorophenoxyacetic acid) on the following biomarkers were used for the multivariate model: digestive enzymes (amylase, cellulase, beta-galactosidase, trypsin, and esterase), enzymes of the intermediary metabolism (glycogen phosphorylase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase, pyruvate kinase, lactate dehydrogenase, and isocitrate dehydrogenase), cellular energy allocation (CEA) (protein, carbohydrate, and lipid content and electron transport activity), and DNA damage and antioxidative stress activity. Using partial least squares to latent structures (PLS), a two-component model was obtained with R2 of 0.68 and a Q2 value of 0.60 based on the combined analysis of a limited number of the 48- and 96-h biomarker responses. For the individual population-level responses, the R2 values varied from 0.66 to 0.77 and the Q2 values from 0.52 to 0.69. Energy-related biomarkers (cellular energy allocation, lipid contents, anaerobic metabolic activity--pyruvate kinase, and lactate dehydrogenase), combined with parameters related to oxidative stress (catalase) and DNA damage measured after 48 and 96 h of exposure, were able to predict long-term effects at higher levels of biological organization.

Survival of indicator organisms during enrichment on tetrachloroethene.A laboratory study was performed as the basis for a full-scale bioaugmentation project at a site contaminated with chlorinated ethenes. The objectives of this study were to 1) develop a protocol to enrich for a tetrachloroethene (PCE)-dechlorinating culture from waste activated sludge and anaerobic digester biosolids and 2) monitor the survival of fecal coliform bacteria and bacteriophage, which model enteric viruses, during the enrichment process. A culture was enriched in 8 days with the ability to degrade 6-microM PCE to cis-dichloroethene. Using the enrichment protocol in two identical experiments, significant inactivation of fecal coliform bacteria (2 log) and somatic coliphage (0.33 log) was observed in one of the experiments; no inactivation occurred in the second experiment. The number of F-specific coliphage decreased in both experiments (0.87 and 1.26 log inactivation). Despite the decrease in some of the coliform and bacteriophage numbers, the quantity of organisms and phage particles present after enrichment was still high (approximately 7.5 x 10(5) most probable number/L, 6.9 x 10(6) plaque-forming units (PFU)/L, and 3.3 x 10(5) PFU/L, for fecal coliform bacteria, somatic coliphage, and F-specific coliphage, respectively). This may be cause for concern, depending on the current and future groundwater use at or near a site undergoing bioaugmentation with cultures derived from waste activated sludge and anaerobic digester biosolids.

Ammonia inhibition on thermophilic anaerobic digestion.This study evaluated both chronic and acute toxicity of ammonia in thermophilic anaerobic digestion of synthetic wastewater over a range of acclimation concentrations. The inhibition effects of ammonia, in terms of total ammonia nitrogen (TAN), under various pH values and acclimation conditions on thermophilic aceticlastic methanogens were investigated. Completely mixed thermophilic anaerobic reactors operated at a chemical oxygen demand (COD) loading rate of 4 g/lday and a solid retention time (SRT) of 7 days were subjected to TAN concentrations of 0.40, 1.20, 3.05, 4.92, and 5.77 g/l. The reactor operations presented a case of chronic inhibition and it was observed that TAN concentrations of 4.92 and 5.77 g/l caused a drop in methane production by as much as 39% and 64%, respectively with respect to control. Batch anaerobic toxicity assays (ATA) were also performed to evaluate the acute toxicity effects of TAN and pH on methanogenesis at thermophilic condition. Modeling based on the results of ATA indicated that aceticlastic methanogens acclimated to high concentrations of TAN were less sensitive to increase in TAN and could tolerate wider pH ranges. TAN concentration causing 100% inhibition occurred in the range of 8-13 g/l, depending on acclimation condition and system pH.

Detection of organ ischemia during hemorrhagic shock.In a porcine hemorrhagic shock model we aimed to determine: (a) whether blood flow to the intestine and kidney was more reduced than cardiac output; (b) whether parameters of anaerobic metabolism correlated with regional blood flow; and (c) whether metabolic parameters in intestine, kidney and skeletal muscles detected a compromised metabolic state at an earlier stage than did systemic parameters.
In an animal research laboratory at a university hospital six domestic pigs were subjected to volume-controlled hemorrhage. Every 30 min samples of blood were withdrawn. Systemic and regional hemodynamic parameters and tissue levels of PCO2 were monitored. Whole body and organ-specific oxygen consumption (VO2) and veno-arterial (VA) differences of lactate, glucose, potassium (K+), PCO2, H+ and base excess (BE) were calculated every 30 min.
With progressive hemorrhage, intestinal blood flow decreased to the same extent as cardiac output, whereas the reduction in renal blood flow was more pronounced. We found a concomitant reduction in VO2 (onset of supply dependent metabolism) in intestine, kidney and skeletal muscles. In muscular tissue PCO2 increased to levels three times higher than baseline, while renal and intestinal PCO2 increased eightfold. Supply dependency was associated with a concomitant increase in VA CO2 and VA H+. Also, VA lactate increased, mostly in intestine and least in skeletal muscle. Intestinal and renal VA K+ increased, while muscular VA K+ decreased. Arterial lactate and H+ increased considerably, whereas arterial BE decreased.
With progressive hemorrhage, renal blood flow, but not intestinal and skeletal muscle blood flow, was reduced more than cardiac output. Supply dependent oxygen metabolism (VO2) and organ acidosis occurred simultaneously in the three organs, despite differences in blood flow reductions. Organ ischemia coincided with a pronounced change in arterial lactate and systemic acid base parameters.

The reaction front hypothesis in solid-state digestion: estimation of minimum size of viable seed body.An alternative mechanism for the anaerobic digestion of a bed of solids was recently proposed. A multizoned reaction front might form around a suitable body of seed material, then advance through the bed, within the solid phase. Such a solid-phase mechanism might coexist with liquid-phase digestion but one or the other of these two parallel mechanisms might generally be dominant. It is envisaged that solid-phase digestion would be favored by the presence of viable seed bodies: single particles of a suitable seed material above a minimum size or equivalent aggregates. A key determinant of the feasibility of this mechanism is expected to be the minimum viable size for a seed body (dmin). This would depend on the thickness of the reaction zones, some of which must initially be accommodated within the seed body. In this article, we present some theoretical estimates of dmin, which indicate a magnitude of 7-700 mm. Such values suggest that solid-phase digestion might be the norm in semi-dry waste digesters. Such digestion might be rare in unseeded landfills but it would appear likely that it could easily be initiated by suitable seeding.

Dynamic simulation of pH in anaerobic processes.With the objective of contributing to the buildup of mathematical tools for anaerobic process simulation, an algorithm for the dynamic simulation of pH was developed. The dynamic simulation of the gaseous phase variables was also considered. The pH algorithm was validated for a watery system, obtaining good agreement between predicted and experimental data. The applied methodology provides a differential equation that allows the inclusion of pH as a state variable of the system that can be easily included in a general mathematical model of anaerobic digestion using matrix notation. This methodology also allows a noticeable decrease in computing time in simulations. A dynamic anaerobic digestion model of complex substrates taken from the literature was completed with the developed algorithms, and it was used to predict the response of an anaerobic reactor against overloading and against the presence of pH-dependent inhibitors with satisfactory results.

Extension of Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 with processes of sulfate reduction.In the present work, the Anaerobic Digestion Model No. 1 (ADM1) for computer simulation of anaerobic processes was extended to the processes of sulfate reduction. The upgrade maintained the structure of ADM1 and included additional blocks describing sulfate-reducing processes (multiple reaction stoichiometry, microbial growth kinetics, conventional material balances for ideally mixed reactor, liquid-gas interactions, and liquid-phase equilibrium chemistry). The extended model was applied to describe a longterm experiment on sulfate reduction in a volatile fatty acid-fed upflow anaerobic sludge bed reactor and was generally able to predict the outcome of competition among acetogenic bacteria, methanogenic archaea, and sulfate- reducing bacteria for these substrates. The computer simulations also showed that when the upward liquid velocity in the reactor exceeds 1 m/d, the structure of the sludge becomes essential owing to bacterial detachment.

Modeling of anaerobic degradation of solid slaughterhouse waste: inhibition effects of long-chain fatty acids or ammonia.The anaerobic bioconversion of solid poultry slaughterhouse wastes was kinetically investigated. The modified version of <METHANE> simulation model was applied for description of experimental data in mesophilic laboratory digester and assays. Additionally, stages of formation and consumption of long chain fatty acids (LCFA) were included in the model. Batch data on volatile solids, ammonium, acetate, butyrate, propionate, LCFA concentrations, pH level, cumulative volume, and methane partial pressure were used for model calibration. As a reference, the model was used to describe digestion of solid sorted household waste. Simulation results showed that an inhibition of polymer hydrolysis by volatile fatty acids and acetogenesis by NH3 or LCFA could be responsible for the complex system dynamics during degradation of lipid- and protein-rich wastes.

Microbial desizing using starch as model compound: enzyme properties and desizing efficiency.A film of sizing agents protects yarn during weaving. Its removal in a subsequent washing process causes 50% of the organic effluent load of textile finishing processes and requires large amounts of auxiliary chemicals (e.g., surfactants). Microbial desizing is a new bioprocess that uses the acidifying culture of a two-phase anaerobic digestion plant for the removal and partial degradation (acidification) of the sizing agent. Soluble starch is used in this study to characterize the enzymatic properties in the supernatant of the desizing culture and to link them to desizing efficiencies. The supernatant of the culture (grown at 37 degrees C, pH 5.5) displayed the highest enzymatic activity between pH 4 and 5 and in a broad temperature range (20-80 degrees C). Highest metabolization rates were determined with the substrate amylose. Short chain dextrins (average of 5 and 10 glucose units) and amylopectin were converted significantly more slowly. At 37 degrees C the half-life time of the enzymatic activity in the supernatant was 45 h. In a desizing test a decisive reduction of the chain length was found already after 1 h (allowing starch solubilization). A microbial desizing experiment with dyed, native maize starch demonstrated the efficiency of the proposed bioprocess.

Fermentation of corn stover to carboxylic acids.This article describes countercurrent fermentation to anaerobically convert corn stover and pig manure to mixed carboxylic acids using a mixed culture of mesophilic microorganisms. Corn stover was pretreated with lime to increase digestibility. The Continuum Particle Distribution Model (CPDM) was used to simulate continuous fermentors based on data collected from batch experiments. This model saves considerable time in determining optimum operating conditions. For 80% corn stover/20% pig manure, the highest total carboxylic acid productivity was 1.81 g/(L of liquid. d) at a concentration of 21.4 g total acid/L. The highest total acid selectivity, yield, and conversion were 0.714 g total acid/g volatile solids (VS) digested, 0.550 g total acid/g VS fed, and 0.770 g VS digested/g VS fed, respectively, at a concentration of 16.0 g total acid/L. CPDM predicted the acid concentration and conversion within 13.4 and 11.6%, respectively.

Kinetics and modeling of anaerobic digestion process.Anaerobic digestion modeling started in the early 1970s when the need for design and efficient operation of anaerobic systems became evident. At that time not only was the knowledge about the complex process of anaerobic digestion inadequate but also there were computational limitations. Thus, the first models were very simple and consisted of a limited number of equations. During the past thirty years much research has been conducted on the peculiarities of the process and on the factors that influence it on the one hand while an enormous progress took place in computer science on the other. The combination of both parameters resulted in the development of more and more concise and complex models. In this chapter the most important models found in the literature are described starting from the simplest and oldest to the more recent and complex ones.

Kinetics for substrate utilization and methane production during the mesophilic anaerobic digestion of two phases olive pomace (TPOP).A kinetic study of the anaerobic digestion process of two phases olive pomace (TPOP) was carried out in a laboratory-scale completely stirred tank reactor at mesophilic temperature (35 degrees C). The reactor was operated at influent substrate concentrations of 34.5 (substrate I), 81.1 (substrate II), 113.1 (substrate III), and 150.3 g COD/L (substrate IV). The hydraulic retention times (HRT) ranged between 8.3 and 40.0 days for the most diluted substrate (I) and between 10 and 50 days for the other three influent substrate concentrations used (substrates II-IV). The results obtained demonstrated that the rates of substrate uptake and methane production were correlated with the concentration of biodegradable total chemical oxygen demand (COD), through equations of the Michaelis-Menten type. A mass (COD) balance around the reactor allowed the methane yield coefficient and cell maintenance coefficient to be obtained, which gave values of 0.25 L CH(4)/g COD(t) and 0.25 days(-1), respectively. The first one was coincident to that obtained through experimental data of methane production and substrate consumption. The kinetic equations obtained and the proposed mass balance were used to simulate the anaerobic digestion process of TPOP and to obtain the theoretical COD of the reactor and methane production rates. The small deviations obtained (equal or lower than 10%) between the values calculated through the model and experimental ones suggest that the proposed model predicts the behavior of the reactor very accurately.

Biodegradation of phthalate esters during the mesophilic anaerobic digestion of sludge.Phthalic acid esters (PAE) are commonly found in the sludge generated in the wastewater treatment plants. Anaerobic digestion followed by land application is a common treatment and disposal practice of sludge. To date, many studies exist on the anaerobic biodegradation rates of PAE, especially of the easily biodegradable ones, whereas the higher molecular weight PAE have reported to be non-biodegradable under methanogenic conditions. Furthermore, there is no information on the effect of the PAE on the performance of the anaerobic digesters treating sludge. In this study, the anaerobic biodegradation of di-n-butyl phthalate (DBP), di-ethyl phthalate (DEP) and di-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) was investigated and their relative rates of anaerobic degradation were calculated. Also, the biological removal of PAE during the anaerobic digestion of sludge in bench-scale digesters was investigated using DBP and DEHP as model compounds of one biodegradable and one recalcitrant PAE respectively. The degradation of all the PAE tested in this study (DEP, DBP and DEHP) is adequately described by first-order kinetics. Batch and continuous experiments showed that DEP and DBP present in sludge are rapidly degraded under mesophilic anaerobic conditions (a first-order kinetic constant of 8.04 x 10(-2) and 13.69 x 10(-2)-4.35 day(-1) respectively) while DEHP is degraded at a rate between one to two orders of magnitude lower (0.35 x 10(-2)-3.59 x 10(-2) day(-1)). It is of high significance that experiments with anaerobic sludge of different origin (US and Europe) showed that degradation of DEHP occurs under methanogenic conditions. Accumulation of high levels of DEHP (more than 60 mg/l) in the anaerobic digester has a negative effect on DBP and DEHP removal rates as well as on the biogas production.

Conversion of sugarcane bagasse to carboxylic acids using a mixed culture of mesophilic microorganisms.Using the MixAlco process, biomass can be converted into carboxylic acids, which can be chemically converted into mixed alcohol fuels. This study focused on the use of countercurrent fermentation to anaerobically convert sugarcane bagasse and chicken manure to mixed carboxylic acids using a mixed culture of mesophilic microorganisms from terrestrial and marine sources. Bagasse was pretreated with lime to increase digestibility. The continuum particle distribution model (CPDM) simulated continuous fermentors based on data collected from batch experiments. This model saves considerable time in determining optimum operating conditions. For an 80% bagasse/20% chicken manure fermentation with terrestrial inoculum at a volatile solids loading rate (VSLR) of 7.36 g/(L of liquid d) and a liquid residence time (LRT) of 8.88 d, total carboxylic acid productivity, total acid selectivity, and yield were 2.49 g/(L of liquid d), 0.581 g of total acid/ g of VS digested, and 0.338 g of total acid/g of VS fed, respectively, at a concentration of 18.7 g of total acid/L. At the same VSLR and LRT, fermentation with marine inoculum gave higher total acid productivity, total acid selectivity, and yield than fermentation with terrestrial inoculum. For an 80% bagasse/20% chicken manure fermentation with marine inoculum at a VSLR of 3.83 g/(L of liquid d) and an LRT of 12.1 d, total carboxylic acid productivity, total acid selectivity, and yield were 1.38 g/(L of liquid d), 0.667 g of total acid/g of VS digested, and 0.359 g of total acid/g of VS fed, respectively, at a concentration of 16.2 g of total acid/L.

Proinflammatory cytokines increase the rate of glycolysis and adenosine-5'-triphosphate turnover in cultured rat enterocytes.Measurements of steady-state adenosine-5'-triphosphate (ATP) levels in tissue samples from patients or experimental animals with sepsis or endotoxemia provide little information about the rate of ATP production and consumption in these conditions. Accordingly, we sought to use an in vitro "reductionist" model of sepsis to test the hypothesis that proinflammatory cytokines modulate ATP turnover rate.
In vitro "reductionist" model of sepsis.
University laboratory.
Cultured rat enterocyte-like cells.
IEC-6 nontransformed rat enterocytes were studied under control conditions or following incubation for 24 or 48 hrs with cytomix, a mixture of tumor necrosis factor-alpha (10 ng/mL), interleukin-1beta (1 ng/mL), and interferon-gamma (1000 units/mL). To measure ATP turnover rate, ATP synthesis was acutely blocked by adding to the cells a mixture of 2-deoxyglucose (10 mM), potassium cyanide (8 mM), and antimycin A (1 microM). ATP content was measured at baseline (before metabolic inhibition) and 0.5, 1, 2, 5, and 10 mins later. Log-linear ATP decay curves were generated and the kinetics of ATP utilization thereby calculated.
ATP consumption rate was higher in cytomix-stimulated compared with control cells (3.11 +/- 1.39 vs. 1.25 +/- 0.66 nmol/min, respectively; p <.01). Similarly, the half-time for ATP disappearance was shorter in cytomix-stimulated compared with control cells (2.63 +/- 1.00 vs. 6.21 +/- 3.49; p <.05). In contrast to these findings, the rate of ATP disappearance was similar in cytokine-naïve and immunostimulated IEC-6 cells when protein and nucleic acid synthesis were inhibited by adding 50 microg/mL cycloheximide and 5 microg/mL actinomycin D to cultures for 4 hrs. The rates of glucose consumption and lactate production were significantly greater in cytomix-stimulated compared with controls cells.
Incubation of IEC-6 cells with cytomix significantly increased ATP turnover. Increased ATP turnover rate was supported by increases in the rate of anaerobic glycolysis. These findings support the view that proinflammatory mediators impose a metabolic demand on visceral cells. In sepsis, cells may be more susceptible to dysfunction on the basis of diminished oxygen delivery and/or mitochondrial dysfunction.

Intestinal bacteria and ulcerative colitis.Convincing evidence from both animal models and the study of patients with ulcerative colitis (UC) implicates the intestinal microflora in the initiation and maintenance of the inflammatory processes in this condition. Despite this, no specific pathogen has been identified as causal and the disease is widely believed to occur as the result of a genetically determined, but abnormal immune response to commensal bacteria. When compared with healthy people, UC patients have increased levels of mucosal IgG directed against the normal microflora. Studies of mucosal bacterial populations in UC indicate that there may be increased numbers of organisms, but reduced counts of "protective" bacteria such as lactobacilli and bifidobacteria. In animal models of colitis, antibiotics, particularly metronidazole, clindamycin, ciprofloxacin and the combination of vancomycin/impinemem protect against UC, especially if given before the onset of inflammation. These antibiotics target anaerobes and some Gram-positive organisms such as enterococci. However, antibiotic use in more than a dozen randomised control trials has been very disappointing, probably because we do not know which species to target, when to give the antibiotics, for how long and in what combinations. Surprisingly, therefore, there is a consistent benefit in the small number of studies reported of probiotics to manage UC and pouchitis. There is scope for more work in this area focussing on the mucosal microflora, its interactions with the gut immune system, its metabolic properties and the potential ways of modifying it.

In vitro studies on colonization resistance of the human gut microbiota to Candida albicans and the effects of tetracycline and Lactobacillus plantarum LPK.An anaerobic three-vessel continuous-flow culture system, which models the three major anatomical regions of the human colon, was used to study the persistence of Candida albicans in the presence of a faecal microbiota. During steady state conditions, overgrowth of C. albicans was prevented by commensal bacteria indigenous to the system. However antibiotics, such as tetracycline have the ability to disrupt the bacterial populations within the gut. Thus, colonization resistance can be compromised and overgrowth of undesirable microorganisms like C. albicans can then occur. In this study, growth of C. albicans was not observed in the presence of an established faecal microbiota. However, following the addition of tetracycline to the growth medium, significant growth of C. albicans occurred. A probiotic Lactobacillus plantarum LPK culture was added to the system to investigate whether this organism had any effects upon the Candida populations. Although C. albicans was not completely eradicated in the presence of this bacterium, cell counts were markedly reduced, indicating a compromised physiological function. This study shows that the normal gut flora can exert 'natural' resistance to C. albicans, however this may be diminished during antibiotic intake. The use of probiotics can help fortify natural resistance.

Identification of equine cecal bacteria producing amines in an in vitro model of carbohydrate overload.Acute laminitis has been associated with the overgrowth of gram-positive bacteria within the equine hindgut, causing the release of factor(s) leading to ischemia-reperfusion of the digits. The products of fermentation which trigger acute laminitis are, as yet, unknown; however, vasoactive amines are possible candidates. The objectives of this study were to use an in vitro model of carbohydrate overload to study the change in populations of cecal streptococci and lactobacilli and to establish whether certain species of these bacteria were capable of producing vasoactive amines from amino acids. Cecal contents from 10 horses were divided into aliquots and incubated anaerobically with either corn starch or inulin (fructan; both at 1 g/100 ml). Samples were taken at 6-h intervals over a 24-h period for enumeration of streptococci, lactobacilli, and gram-negative anaerobes by a dilution method onto standard selective growth media. The effects of the antibiotic virginiamycin (1 mg/100 ml) and calcium hydrogen phosphate (CaHPO(4); 0.3 g/100 ml) were also examined. Fermentation of excess carbohydrate was associated with increases in numbers of streptococci and lactobacilli (2- to 3.5-log unit increases; inhibited by virginiamycin) but numbers of gram-negative anaerobes were not significantly affected. A screening agar technique followed by 16S rRNA gene sequence analysis enabled the identification of 26 different bacterial strains capable of producing one or more vasoactive amines. These included members of the species Streptococcus bovis and five different Lactobacillus spp. These data suggest that certain bacteria, whose overgrowth is associated with carbohydrate fermentation, are capable of producing vasoactive amines which may play a role in the pathogenesis of acute laminitis.

High cell density cultivation of probiotics and lactic acid production.The commercial interest in functional foods that contain live microorganisms, also named probiotics, is paralleled by the increasing scientific attention to their functionality in the digestive tract. This is especially true of yogurts that contain strains of lactic-acid bacteria of intestinal origin, among these, Lactobacillus delbrueckii ssp. bulgaricus is extensively used in the dairy industry and it has been demonstrated to be a probiotic strain. In this work we describe high cell density cultivations of this microorganism also focusing on the stereospecific production of lactic acid. Key parameters such as medium composition (bactocasitone concentration) and diverse aeration conditions were explored. The results showed that the final concentration of biomass in anaerobic fermentation was lower than the one obtained in microaerophilic conditions, while it gave a very high productivity of lactic acid which was present as a racemic mixture in the permeate. Fermentation experiments carried out with air sparging, even at very low flow-rate, led to the production of the sole L(+) lactic acid giving sevenfold increase in biomass yield in respect to the batch cultivation. Finally, a mathematical model was developed to describe the microfiltration bioprocess applied in this research considering an inhibition kinetic and enucleating a suitable mathematical description for the decrease of the transmembrane flux.

Performance of a glucose fed periodic anaerobic baffled reactor under increasing organic loading conditions: 2. Model prediction.A model was developed for the anaerobic digestion of a glucose-based medium in an innovative high-rate reactor, the periodic anaerobic baffled reactor (PABR). The model considers each PABR compartment as two variable volume interacting sections, of constant total volume, one with high solids and one with low solids concentration, with the gas and liquid flows influencing the material flows between the two sections. For the simulation of glucose degradation, the biomass was divided into acidogenic, acetogenic and methanogenic groups of microorganisms. The kinetic part of the model accounted for possible inhibition of acidogenesis, acetogenesis and methanogenesis by volatile fatty acids. The model succeeded in predicting the reactor performance upon step increases in the organic loading rate.

Snapshots of transition states?

Suicidal inactivation of the rabbit 15-lipoxygenase by 15S-HpETE is paralleled by covalent modification of active site peptides.Lipoxygenases (LOXs) are multifunctional enzymes that catalyze the oxygenation of polyunsaturated fatty acids to hydroperoxy derivatives; they also convert hydroperoxy fatty acids to epoxy leukotrienes and other secondary products. LOXs undergo suicidal inactivation but the mechanism of this process is still unclear. We investigated the mechanism of suicidal inactivation of the rabbit 15-lipoxygenase by [1-(14)C]-(15S,5Z,8Z,11Z,13E)-15-hydroperoxyeicosa-5,8,11,13-tetraenoic acid (15-HpETE) and observed covalent modification of the enzyme protein. In contrast, nonlipoxygenase proteins (bovine serum albumin and human gamma-globulin) were not significantly modified. Under the conditions of complete enzyme inactivation we found that 1.3 +/- 0.2 moles (n = 10) of inactivator were bound per mole lipoxygenase, and this value did depend neither on the enzyme/inactivator ratio nor on the duration of the inactivation period. Covalent modification required active enzyme protein and proceeded to a similar extent under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. In contrast, [1-(14)C]-(15S,5Z,8Z,11Z,13E)-15-hydroxyeicosa-5,8,11,13-tetraenoic acid (15-HETE), which is no substrate for epoxy-leukotriene formation, did not inactivate the enzyme and protein labeling was minimal. Separation of proteolytic cleavage peptides (Lys-C endoproteinase digestion) by tricine SDS-PAGE and isoelectric focusing in connection with N-terminal amino acid sequencing revealed covalent modification of several active site peptides. These data suggest that 15-lipoxygenase-catalyzed conversion of (15S,5Z,8Z,11Z,13E)-15-hydroperoxyeicosa-5,8,11,13-tetraenoic acid to 14,15-epoxy-leukotriene leads to the formation of reactive intermediate(s), which are covalently linked to the active site. Therefore, this protein modification contributes to suicidal inactivation.

The microbiology of butyrate formation in the human colon.Butyrate arising from microbial fermentation is important for the energy metabolism and normal development of colonic epithelial cells and has a mainly protective role in relation to colonic disease. While certain dietary substrates such as resistant starch appear to be butyrogenic in the colon, it is not known to what extent these stimulate butyrate production directly, e.g. by promoting amylolytic species, or indirectly, e.g. through cross-feeding of fermentation products. Cultural and molecular studies indicate that the most numerous butyrate-producing bacteria found in human faeces are highly oxygen-sensitive anaerobes belonging to the Clostridial clusters IV and XIVa. These include many previously undescribed species related to Eubacterium, Roseburia, Faecalibacterium and Coprococcus whose distribution and metabolic characteristics are under investigation. A better understanding of the microbial ecology of colonic butyrate-producing bacteria will help to explain the influence of diet upon butyrate supply, and to suggest new approaches for optimising microbial activity in the large intestine.

Anaerobic treatment of sludge: focusing on reduction of LAS concentration in sludge.Anaerobic degradation of linear alkylbenzene sulfonates (LAS) was tested in continuous stirred tank reactors (CSTR). LAS12 was used as a model compound and was spiked on sewage sludge. The experiments clearly showed that transformation of LAS12 occurred under anaerobic conditions. The degree oftransformation varied between 14% and 25%. HPLC analysis showed that disappearance of LAS12 was followed by the formation of a metabolite. The experiments indicated that there is a clear correlation between degradation of organic matter contained in sludge and transformation of LAS 12. When the reduction degree of the organic matter increased from 22% to 28%, the transformation degree of LAS12 also increased, from 14% to 20%. Decreasing the total solids concentration of the influent sludge or increasing the spiked concentration of LAS12 did not alter the degree of LAS12 transformation significantly. A clear correlation between transformed and bioavailable LAS12 was found, indicating that it is merely the bioavailable fraction of LAS12 that is transformed by anaerobic digestion. The results from the present study are promising and indicate that a great potential for biological degradation of LAS is possible even at anaerobic conditions.

Effect of early intrajejunal nutrition on pancreatic pathological features and gut barrier function in dogs with acute pancreatitis.In patients with major trauma and burns, total enteral nutrition (TEN) significantly decreases the acute phase response and incidence of septic complications when compared with total parenteral nutrition (TPN). Traditionally, it was believed that early intrajejunal nutrition (EIN) in severe acute pancreatitis (SAP) may exacerbate the clinical pathological features, lead to recurrence of symptoms and delay complications.
To compare the effect of EIN vs TPN on the pancreatic pathological features and gut barrier function in dogs with acute pancreatitis (AP).
Fifteen dogs (surviving over 7 days, the death rate being 32%, 7/22) were divided into parenteral nutrition (PN) group (n=7) and EIN group (n=8). SAP model was induced by injecting 1 ml/kg of combined solution of 2.5% sodium taurocholate and 8000-10000 BAEE units trypsin/ml into the pancreas via the pancreatic duct. Nutrients were delivered to the EIN group by catheter via a jejunostomy feeding 24 h postoperatively. The two groups were isocaloric and isonitrogenous. Systemic blood samples were obtained before and 1, 4, 7 d following AP, and cultured by aerobic as well as anaerobic bacterial growth. Systemic plasma and portal vein endotoxin levels were quantified by the chromogenic limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL) technique. Portal vein blood and specimens of tissue from mesenteriolum and mesocolon lymph nodes, lung, pulmonary portal lymph nodes and pancreas were adopted before the experiment was finished. Aliquots of the homogenata were cultured as blood mentioned above. Serum glucose, calcium, amylase and lysosomal enzymes were determined. All dogs were injected with 50 microCi (125)I-BSA 4 h at the 7th day before being sacrificed. The (125)I-BSA indexes of the pancreas/muscle and pancreas/blood were measured, and pancreatitic pathological scores (PPSs) of the different partial pancreas were observed. The content of mucosa protein, DNA and the villi, the thickness of mucosa and the whole bowel wall of the ileum and transverse colon were measured.
The study showed that serum glucose in the PN group was higher than in the EIN group after SAP 3 d; the levels of systemic plasma endotoxin and the magnitude of bacterial translocation to the portal and systemic blood and distant organ reduced significantly in the EIN group P<0.01. There were no differences between the two groups in the data of serum calcium, amylase and lysosomal enzymes, P>0.05; the (125)I-BSA index of pancreas/muscle and pancreas/blood, and PPS of the head, body, tail and total pancreas did not reach significant difference between the two groups, P>0.05. The contents of protein and DNA, the height of villi, the thickness of mucosa and the whole bowel wall of the ileum and transverse colon in the EIN group were higher than that in the PN group,P <0.01.
Our results suggested that EIN was safe and effective to be adopted by intrajejunal delivery of nutrients in SAP dogs, did not make SAP clinical pathological features deteriorate, and decreased the occurrence rate of endotoxin and gut bacterial translocation.

Distributed model of solid waste anaerobic digestion: effects of leachate recirculation and pH adjustment.A distributed model of solid waste digestion in a 1-D bioreactor with leachate recirculation and pH adjustment was developed to analyze the balance between the rates of polymer hydrolysis/acidogenesis and methanogenesis during the anaerobic digestion of municipal solid waste (MSW). The model was calibrated on previously published experimental data generated in 2-L reactors filled with shredded refuse and operated with leachate recirculation and neutralization. Based on model simulations, both waste degradation and methane production were stimulated when inhibition was prevented rapidly from the start, throughout the reactor volume, by leachate recirculation and neutralization. An optimal strategy to reduce the time needed for solid waste digestion is discussed.

Comparative process stability and efficiency of anaerobic digestion; mesophilic vs. thermophilic.The comparative process stability and efficiency of mesophilic (35 degrees C) and thermophilic anaerobic digestion (55 degrees C) has been evaluated for four different reactor configurations, which are: daily batch-fed single-stage continuously stirred tank reactor (CSTR), continuously fed single-stage CSTR, daily batch-fed two-phase CSTR, and daily batch-fed non-mixed single-stage reactor. The results are discussed for three periods: (1) start-up, (2) steady state, and (3) organic loading rate (OLR) increase until reactor failure (pH below 5.5). During the start-up, the single-stage CSTRs at both temperatures showed the least stability, while the non-mixed single-stage reactors reached steady state in the shortest time with relatively stable pH and low volatile fatty acid (VFA). In the case of the thermophilic non-mixed reactor, efficient removal of propionate occurred but supplementation of nutrients (Ca, Fe, Ni, and Co) was required when VFA increased. The results imply the importance of inorganic nutrients bioavailability. The comparative results of the reactor performance at steady state clearly showed the superior performance of the thermophilic non-mixed reactor with respect to lower VFA, higher gas production and volatile solids removal implying that microbial consortia proximity can alleviate the problem of poor effluent quality in thermophilic system. During the OLR increase until reactor failure, all thermophilic reactors except the thermophilic non-mixed reactor showed increases in propionate concentrations as the OLR increased, while all mesophilic reactors except the mesophilic two-phase system showed little increase in VFA concentrations. When all reactors had the same conditions with OLR increase, the continuously fed reactors showed the lowest gas production, while the non-mixed reactors showed the highest gas production at both temperatures. It is hypothesized that the non-mixing reactor configuration has closer microbial consortia proximity than others. Therefore, the results in this study indicated the importance of microbial consortia proximity. A proposed model for the effect of the distance between two syntrophic bacteria reasonably matched the data in this study.

Production of amines in equine cecal contents in an in vitro model of carbohydrate overload.Acute laminitis can be induced experimentally in horses by the administration of carbohydrate, resulting in fermentation within the cecum and ischemia-reperfusion of the digits. The products of fermentation that trigger acute laminitis are as yet unknown; however, compounds such as amines might play a role due to their potential vasoactive properties. The objectives of this study were to quantify the amines present in equine cecal contents and to use a model of carbohydrate overload in vitro to test the hypothesis that carbohydrate fermentation is associated with increased amine production. Cecal contents from each horse were divided into aliquots and incubated anaerobically with either cornstarch or inulin (a form of fructan carbohydrate; both 1 g/100 mL). The pH was measured and samples were taken at the same time for amine measurement by HPLC at 2-h intervals over a 24-h period. In a second set of experiments, the effects of the antibiotic virginiamycin (1 mg/100 mL), calcium (CaPO4; 0.3 g/100 mL), and plant steroidal saponin (Yucca schidigera extract; 0.1 g/100 mL) were examined on pH and amine concentrations in cecal contents incubated with starch or inulin. Both starch and inulin caused significant time-dependent falls in pH, from 6.7 +/- 0.1 at 0 h to 5.2 +/- 0.1 (starch) and 5.0 +/- 0.1 (inulin) at 24 h. Fermentation of carbohydrate was also associated with increased production of phenylethylamine and isoamylamine (two- to threefold increases) as well as putrescine and cadaverine (1.5- to twofold increases). Virginiamycin inhibited the fall in pH and increases in production of phenylethylamine and isoamylamine, while calcium phosphate moderated the changes in pH only. Yucca schidigera extract was without effect. These data show that fermentation of carbohydrate by equine cecal microbiota may lead to increased production of amines.

Upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactor--a review.Biological treatment of wastewater basically reduces the pollutant concentration through microbial coagulation and removal of non-settleable organic colloidal solids. Organic matter is biologically stabilized so that no further oxygen demand is exerted by it. The biological treatment requires contact of the biomass with the substrate. Various advances and improvements in anaerobic reactors to achieve variations in contact time and method of contact have resulted in development of in suspended growth systems, attached growth or fixed film systems or combinations thereof. Although anaerobic systems for waste treatment have been used since late 19th century, they were considered to have limited treatment efficiencies and were too slow to serve the needs of a quickly expanding wastewater volume, especially in industrialized and densely populated areas. At present aerobic treatment is the most commonly used process to reduce the organic pollution level of both domestic and industrial wastewaters. Aerobic techniques, such as activated sludge process, trickling filters, oxidation ponds and aerated lagoons, with more or less intense mixing devices, have been successfully installed for domestic wastewater as well as industrial wastewater treatment. Anaerobic digestion systems have undergone modifications in the last two decades, mainly as a result of the energy crisis. Major developments have been made with regard to anaerobic metabolism, physiological interactions among different microbial species, effects of toxic compounds and biomass accumulation. Recent developments however, have demonstrated that anaerobic processes might be an economically attractive alternative for the treatment of different types of industrial wastewaters and in (semi-) tropical areas also for domestic wastewaters. The anaerobic degradation of complex, particulate organic matter has been described as a multistep process of series and parallel reactions. It involves the decomposition of organic and inorganic matter in the absence of molecular oxygen. Complex polymeric materials such as polysaccharides, proteins, and lipids (fat and grease) are first hydrolyzed to soluble products by extracellular enzymes, secreted by microorganisms, so as to facilitate their transport or diffusion across the cell membrane. These relatively simple, soluble compounds are fermented or anaerobically oxidized, further to short-chain fatty acids, alcohols, carbon dioxide, hydrogen, and ammonia. The short-chain fatty acids (other than acetate) are converted to acetate, hydrogen gas, and carbon dioxide. Methanogenesis finally occurs from the reduction of carbon dioxide and acetate by hydrogen. The initial stage of anaerobic degradation, i.e. acid fermentation is essentially a constant BOD stage because the organic molecules are only rearranged. The first stage does not stabilize the organics in the waste. However this step is essential for the initiation of second stage methane fermentation as it converts the organic material to a form, usable by the methane producing bacteria. The second reaction is initiated when anaerobic methane forming bacteria act upon the short chain organic acids produced in the 1st stage. Here these acids undergo methane fermentation with carbon dioxide acting as hydrogen acceptor and getting reduced to methane. The methane formed, being insoluble in water, escapes from the system and can be tapped and used as an energy source. The production and subsequent escape of methane causes the stabilization of the organic material. The methane-producing bacteria consist of several different groups. Each group has the ability to ferment only specific compounds. Therefore, the bacterial consortia in a methane producing system should include a number of different groups. When the rate of bacterial growth is considered, then the retention time of the solids becomes important parameter. The acid fermentation stage is faster as compared to the methane fermentation stage. This means that a sudden increase in the easily degradable organics will result in increased acid production with subsequent accumulation of acids. This inhibits the methanogenesis step. Acclimatization of the microorganisms to a substrate has been reported to take more than five weeks. Sufficiently acclimated bacteria have shown greater stability towards stress-inducing events such as hydraulic overloads, fluctuations in temperature, fluctuations in volatile acid and ammonia concentrations etc. Several environmental factors can affect anaerobic digestion, by altering the parameters such as specific growth rate, decay rate, gas production, substrate utilization, start-up and response to changes in input. It has long been recognized that an anaerobic process is in many ways ideal for wastewater treatment and has following merits: A high degree of waste stabilization A low production of excess A low nutrient requirements No oxygen requirement Production of methane gas Anaerobic microorganisms, especially methanogens have a slow growth rate. At lower HRTs, the possibility of washout of biomass is more prominent. This makes it difficult to maintain the effective number of useful microorganisms in the system. To maintain the population of anaerobes, large reactor volumes or higher HRTs are required. This may ultimately provide longer SRTs upto 20 days for high rate systems. Thus, provision of larger reactor volumes or higher HRTs ultimately lead to higher capital cost. Among notable disadvantages, it has low synthesis/reaction rate hence long start up periods and difficulty in recovery from upset conditions. Special attention is, therefore, warranted towards, controlling the factors that affect process adversely; important among them being environmental factors such as temperature, pH and concentration of toxic substances. The conventional anaerobic treatment process consists of a reactor containing waste and biological solids (bacteria) responsible for the digestion process. Concentrated waste (usually sewage sludge) can be added continuously or periodically (semi-batch operation), where it is mixed with the contents of the reactor. Theoretically, the conventional digester is operated as a once-through, completely mixed, reactor. In this particular mode of operation the hydraulic retention time (HRT) is equal to the solids retention time (SRT). Basically, the required process efficiency is related to the sludge retention time (SRT), and hence longer SRT provided, results in satisfactory population (by reproduction) for further waste stabilization. By reducing the hydraulic retention time (HRT) in the conventional mode reactor, the quantity of biological solids within the reactor is also decreased as the solids escape with the effluent. The limiting HRT is reached when the bacteria are removed from the reactor faster than they can grow. Methanogenic bacteria are slow growers and are considered the rate-limiting component in the anaerobic digestion process. The first anaerobic process developed, which separated the SRT from the HRT was the anaerobic contact process. In 1963, Young and McCarty (1968) began work, which eventually led to the development of the anaerobic upflow filter (AF) process. The anaerobic filter represented a significant advance in anaerobic waste treatment, since the filter can trap and maintain a high concentration of biological solids. By trapping these solids, long SRT's could be obtained at large waste flows, necessary to anaerobically treat low strength wastes at nominal temperatures economically. Another anaerobic process which relies on the development of biomass on the surfaces of a media is an expanded bed upflow reactor. The primary concept of the process consists of passing wastewater up through a bed of inert sand sized particles at sufficient velocities to fluidize and partially expand the sand bed. One of the more interesting new processes is the upflow anaerobic sludge blanket process (UASB), which was developed by Lettinga and his co-workers in Holland in the early 1970's. The key to the process was the discovery that anaerobic sludge inherently has superior flocculation and settling characteristics, provided the physical and chemical conditions for sludge flocculation are favorable. When these conditions are met, a high solids retention time (at high HRT loadings) can be achieved, with separation of the gas from the sludge solids. The UASB reactor is one of the reactor types with high loading capacity. It differs from other processes by the simplicity of its design. UASB process is a combination of physical & biological processes. The main feature of physical process is separation of solids and gases from the liquid and that of biological process is degradation of decomposable organic matter under anaerobic conditions. No separate settler with sludge return pump is required, as in the anaerobic contact process. There is no loss of reactor volume through filter or carrier material, as in the case with the anaerobic filter and fixed film reactor types, and there is no need for high rate effluent recirculation and concomitant pumping energy, as in the case with fluidized bed reactor. Anaerobic sludge inherently possesses good settling properties, provided the sludge is not exposed to heavy mechanical agitation. For this reason mechanical mixing is generally omitted in UASB-reactors. At high organic loading rates, the biogas production guarantees sufficient contact between substrate and biomass. Regarding the dynamic behaviour of the water phase UASB reactor approaches the completely mixed reactor. For achieving the required sufficient contact between sludge and wastewater, the UASB-system relies on the agitation brought about by the natural gas production and on an even feed inlet distribution at the bottom of the reactor. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

In-vitro transfer of nitazoxanide across the intestinal epithelial barrier.Nitazoxanide is a thiazolide compound that exhibits antimicrobial properties against helminths, protozoa, anaerobic bacteria and also Helicobacter pylori. The mucosal diffusion of this new drug has not been studied. The aim of this study was to examine the transport of radiolabelled nitazoxanide across the epithelial barrier according to the mode (mucosal or serosal) of drug administration. HT29-19A intestinal epithelial cells, grown as monolayers on microporous filters, were used as an epithelial model. In a short-term (100 min) transport study, the apical to basal and the basal to apical transport of nitazoxanide across the monolayers was studied in an Ussing chamber. In a long-term (24 h) study, the transport of the drug and its intracellular accumulation were studied in filter-grown epithelial monolayers kept in culture plates. In the short-term transport study, both the apical and basal fluxes achieved a steady state after 70 min and there was no significant difference between the apical to basal (3991+/-1001 ng h(-1) cm(-2)) and the basal to apical (4246+/-856 ng h(-1) cm(-2)) nitazoxanide fluxes. In the long-term transport study, after apical or basal drug application, a gradual increase in the drug concentration in the opposite compartment was noted, which reached similar values for apical and basal fluxes (2497+/-125 and 2309+/-81 ng mL(-1), respectively) after 24 h. Moreover, a rapid, although transitory, intracellular accumulation of nitazoxanide was observed at 10 min after apical (299+/-25 ng/10(6) cells) and basal (124+/-10 ng/10(6) cells) drug application, but decreased thereafter. There is an important transepithelial transport of nitazoxanide across the digestive epithelial monolayer with a rapid intracellular accumulation of the drug. No difference between the apical to basal and basal to apical fluxes of the drug was observed, suggesting that both topical and systemic modes of action of this antibiotic are successful.

Model intestinal microflora in computer simulation: a simulation and modeling package for host-microflora interactions.The ecology of the human intestinal microflora and its interaction with the host are poorly understood. Though more and more data are being acquired, in part using modern molecular methods, development of a quantitative theory has not kept pace with this increase in observing power. This is in part due to the complexity of the system and to the lack of simulation environments in which to test what the ecological effect of a hypothetical mechanism of interaction would be, before resorting to laboratory experiments. The MIMICS project attempts to address this through the development of a cellular automaton for simulation of the intestinal microflora. In this paper, the design and evaluation of this simulator is discussed.

Nifurtimox biotransformation to reactive metabolites or nitrite in liver subcellular fractions and model systems.Liver microsomal (mic); nuclei (N) and mitochondria (mit) anaerobically nitroreduce Nifurtimox (Nfx) in the presence of NADPH generating system. Simultaneous formation of small amounts of nitrite was observed in microsomes and nuclei but not in mitochondria. The microsomal nitroreductase activity was enhanced by the presence of flavine-adenine-dinucleotide disodium salt (FAD), was not inhibited by CO and was significantly inhibited by diphenyleneiodonium (DPI). In the microsomal NADPH-dependent fraction nitrite formation was null in the presence of FAD, DPI and under air and was partially inhibited by pure CO. Pure human cytochrome P450 reductase in the presence of NADPH significantly nitroreduced Nfx and produced small amounts of nitrite. The nitroreductive process was significantly enhanced by FAD but the nitrite formation became null. FAD itself was able to chemically nitroreduce Nfx without production of nitrite. NADPH generating system enhanced the FAD nitroreductive effect and led to small production of nitrite. Formation of reactive metabolites and nitric oxide during Nfx metabolism might contribute to its toxicity.

Kinetics of anaerobic treatment of slaughterhouse wastewater in batch and upflow anaerobic sludge blanket reactor.The kinetics of anaerobic treatment of slaughterhouse wastewater in batch and upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactors was investigated. Different concentrations of organic matter in slaughterhouse wastewater did not change the first order kinetics of the reaction. In batch digesters, methane and nitrogen production stopped after 30-40, 20-30 h, respectively, and in UASB reactors it was terminated after 30-40 days. The constant of velocity was 3.93 and 0.23 h(-1) respectively, for methane and nitrogen production. The yield coefficient, Yp was 343 and 349 ml CH4 per g of chemical oxygen demand at standard temperature and pressure conditions for batch reactors and UASB reactor, respectively.

Iron fortification of wheat flour: bioavailability studies.Bioavailability refers to that fraction of nutrients which is utilized by the body out of the total indigested amount. Various direct and indirect methods for the determination of bioavailability are available. We determined the bioavailability of iron from fortified wheat flour using both in vitro and in vivo methods. The bioavailability data will be used to make the recommendation for a fortification strategy in Pakistan. The in vitro bioavailability of iron from fortified wheat flour was determined using in vitro enzymatic digestion and fermentation by simulating the condition of the small intestine and colon in the laboratory. Different products were prepared from the fortified ferrous sulfate (FeSO4) and unfortified wheat flour. The total iron of the samples was measured by the wet-digestion method and analyzed on an atomic absorption spectrometer (AAS). To obtain the percentage of iron released, the samples were subjected to pepsin digestion and dialysis. The dialysate was collected at 3, 6, 9, and 12 hours and read on an AAS. The retentates from the above were subjected to the fermentation condition of the colon by inoculating it with human fecal inoculum and incubating it for 24 hours at 37 degrees C under anerobic conditions. The dialysate was collected at 3- and 6-hour intervals and read on an AAS. More iron was released from fortified wheat flour (4.6%), leavened chapati (6.8%), and Nan (15.1%) than from the unfortified control samples. Fermentation and leavening resulted in a better release, which was evident from in vitro digestion results.

Detrimental effects of rapid fluid resuscitation on hepatocellular function and survival after hemorrhagic shock.Because end-organ injury can occur with reperfusion following hemorrhage or ischemia, we hypothesized that aggressive intravenous fluid resuscitation would aggravate tissue injury in a fixed-volume model of hemorrhagic shock. Unanesthetized chronically prepared male rats were hemorrhaged 33-36 mL/kg for 2.5 h. Then Lactated Ringers Solution (3x hemorrhage volume) was infused over 5 min (FAST), 20 min (MEDIUM), 180 min (SLOW), or not at all (NO RESUS). Plasma ornithine carbamoyltransferase (OCT), lactate, and creatinine were measured as indices of hepatocellular injury, anaerobic metabolism, and renal function, respectively. At 1 h post-resuscitation (PR), MAP was greater after SLOW and MEDIUM treatment (tx) than after other txs (P < 0.05). OCT increased earliest after FAST tx to values greater than those after other txs from 30 min to 24 h PR (P < 0.01). Plasma lactate was elevated immediately before resuscitation in all groups (P < 0.01) and returned to baseline at 3 h PR after SLOW tx compared to 5 h PR after FAST tx (P < 0.05). Creatinine at 5 h PR was less in the groups treated with intravenous fluid compared to the NO RESUS group, P < 0.05. Survival at 72 h was reduced in the FAST (57%) and NO RESUS (58%) groups compared to the SLOW (87%) and MEDIUM (85%) groups (P < 0.05). Thus, overly aggressive fluid tx accelerates hepatocellular injury, is no better than lesser rates of resuscitation at correcting plasma lactate and preserving renal function, and provides no overall survival benefit.

A hybrid two-phase system for anaerobic digestion of food waste.A hybrid two-phase system, consisting of a solid waste reactor as the acidification reactor and a wastewater reactor, i.e. an upflow anaerobic sludge blanket (UASB) reactor, as the methanogenic reactor, for anaerobic digestion of food waste was investigated. After the pre-acidification stage, COD and total VFA removals in the methanogenic phase were in the ranges of 74-93% and 77-100%, respectively, while leachate COD and total VFA concentrations in the acidification phase decreased by 95% and 97-99%, respectively. Some 99% of the total CH4 generated was from the methanogenic phase with the CH4 content of 68-70%. About 77-79% of TOC, 57-60% of volatile solids and 79-80% of total COD were removed. The results of this laboratory-scale study show that the hybrid two-phase anaerobic batch reactor system is suitable for effective conversion of food waste into CH4 and CO2. The hybrid two-phase system can be further developed into an effective and efficient way to enhance waste stabilization in operating bioreactor landfills.

The IWA Anaerobic Digestion Model No 1 (ADM1).The IWA Anaerobic Digestion Modelling Task Group was established in 1997 at the 8th World Congress on Anaerobic Digestion (Sendai, Japan) with the goal of developing a generalised anaerobic digestion model. The structured model includes multiple steps describing biochemical as well as physicochemical processes. The biochemical steps include disintegration from homogeneous particulates to carbohydrates, proteins and lipids; extracellular hydrolysis of these particulate substrates to sugars, amino acids, and long chain fatty acids (LCFA), respectively; acidogenesis from sugars and amino acids to volatile fatty acids (VFAs) and hydrogen; acetogenesis of LCFA and VFAs to acetate; and separate methanogenesis steps from acetate and hydrogen/CO2. The physico-chemical equations describe ion association and dissociation, and gas-liquid transfer. Implemented as a differential and algebraic equation (DAE) set, there are 26 dynamic state concentration variables, and 8 implicit algebraic variables per reactor vessel or element. Implemented as differential equations (DE) only, there are 32 dynamic concentration state variables.

A comparative analysis of a balance between the rates of polymer hydrolysis and acetoclastic methanogenesis during anaerobic digestion of solid waste.A distributed model of anaerobic digestion of solid waste was developed. Waste, volatile fatty acids (VFA), methanogenic biomass and methane concentrations were the model variables. A system of parabolic partial differential equations in the one space variable and time with slab, cylindrical or spherical symmetry of the problem was solved numerically. Diffusion of VFA inhibiting both polymer hydrolysis and acetoclastic methanogenesis was taken into account. The model showed that concentration waves of methanogenic biomass and VFA propagated over reaction space. Diffusion-based "acceleration" of methane production in the reactor was possible when intensity of VFA utilisation in the methanogenic area was sufficient for complete digestion of incoming VFA. Otherwise, methanogenic area propagation would be suppressed. Optimum conditions for the solid waste digestion can be reached at low mass transfer at the beginning and at high mass transfer when methanogenic population increases. If the initial methanogenic biomass was localised at the centre of the reactor, the total reaction time was shorter as compared to the case when the initial biomass was uniformly distributed over the reactor volume. In the last case, there was no concentration wave propagation.

Toxicity of linear alkylbenzene sulfonate in anaerobic digestion: influence of exposure time.The inhibition of anaerobic digestion by the anionic surfactant linear alkylbenzene sulfonate was studied. The development of bacterial activity during several weeks was monitored by performing batch degradation tests with acetate and propionate. In the first phase the decay of activity without surfactant addition was studied. After the addition of the surfactant an immediate inhibition was detected. Subsequently, the degradation activity continued to decrease with increasing exposure time. Both, the immediate inhibition and the rate of the subsequent decrease of activity were dependent on the surfactant concentration. A kinetic model is presented that describes this behavior. A surfactant concentration of 14 mg L(-1) causes a 50% immediate inhibition of acetate degradation (27 mg L(-1) in the case of propionate degradation). Additionally, each 12 mg L(-1) of surfactant increases the decay rate of acetate degradation activity by a factor 10 (23 mg L(-1) for propionate degradation). A deviation from this model occurs at low surfactant concentrations (<3 mg L(-1)), where a slight stimulation of bacterial activity was observed. The above-mentioned concentrations refer to measured surfactant concentrations. These were substantially lower than the nominal concentrations (added surfactant per volume). This discrepancy is explained by adsorption of the surfactant to the biomass. Finally, the importance of the presented kinetic model and the significance of surfactant toxicity for anaerobic digestion are discussed.

Switch to anaerobic glucose metabolism with NADH accumulation in the beta-cell model of mitochondrial diabetes. Characteristics of betaHC9 cells deficient in mitochondrial DNA transcription.To elucidate the mechanism underlying diabetes caused by mitochondrial gene mutations, we created a model by applying 0.4 microg/ml ethidium bromide (EtBr) to the murine pancreatic beta cell line betaHC9; in this model, transcription of mitochondrial DNA, but not that of nuclear DNA, was suppressed in association with impairment of glucose-stimulated insulin release (Hayakawa, T., Noda, M., Yasuda, K., Yorifuji, H., Taniguchi, S., Miwa, I., Sakura, H., Terauchi, Y., Hayashi, J.-I., Sharp, G. W. G., Kanazawa, Y., Akanuma, Y., Yazaki, Y., and Kadowaki, T. (1998) J. Biol. Chem. 273, 20300-20307). To elucidate fully the metabolism-secretion coupling in these cells, we measured glucose oxidation, utilization, and lactate production. We also evaluated NADH autofluorescence in betaHC9 cells using two-photon excitation laser microscopy. In addition, we recorded the membrane potential and determined the ATP and ADP contents of the cells. The results indicated 22.2 mm glucose oxidation to be severely decreased by EtBr treatment compared with control cells (by 63% on day 4 and by 78% on day 6; both p < 0.01). By contrast, glucose utilization was only marginally decreased. Lactate production under 22.2 mm glucose was increased by 2.9- and 3.5-fold by EtBr treatment on days 4 and 6, respectively (both p < 0.01). Cellular NADH at 2.8 mm glucose was increased by 35 and 43% by EtBr on days 4 and 6 (both p < 0.01). These data suggest that reduced expression of the mitochondrial electron transport system causes NADH accumulation in beta cells, thereby halting the tricarboxylic acid cycle on one hand, and on the other hand facilitating anaerobic glucose metabolism. Glucose-induced insulin secretion was lost rapidly along with the EtBr treatment with concomitant losses of membrane potential depolarization and the [Ca(2+)](i) increase, whereas glibenclamide-induced changes persisted. This is the first report to demonstrate the connection between metabolic alteration of electron transport system and that of tricarboxylic acid cycle and its impact on insulin secretion.

Roles of mucosal bacteria and succinic acid in colitis caused by dextran sulfate sodium in mice.Intestines of mice with colitis caused by dextran sulfate sodium (DSS) contain more Bacteroidaceae cells than untreated controls. We investigated the roles of intestinal bacteria and succinic acid, a by-product of Bacteroidaceae metabolism, in this model of colitis. CBA/J mice were given 3% DSS in water for 14 days. After mice were anesthetized and killed, concentrations of organic acids in stools from the cecum and colon were measured. The resected rectum and colon were washed with sterile saline; some specimens were incubated with imipenem in saline for 1 h to kill bacteria on the surfaces and others were not. Their homogenates were cultured anaerobically and aerobically. Separately, 1 mL of 20 mM succinic acid was infused into the rectum of mice, whose anal verge was glued. Animals were anesthetized and killed the next day. The rectum and colon were examined histologically. Concentrations of succinate were higher everywhere in the colon of mice with colitis than in controls. Mice with colitis had more Bacteroidaceae cells, especially B. caccae, than controls. Mice given succinate enemas had focal erosions of the mucosa and edema of the submucosa. Succinic acid, produced abundantly by members of the family Bacteroidaceae, especially B. caccae, may be the ulcerogenic agent in DSS colitis.

Application of a variable structure model in observation and control of an anaerobic digestor.In this work, a variable structure model (VSM) of an anaerobic digestion process was developed. The anaerobic biodegradation process was described by four nonlinear submodels representing methanogenic, chemical oxygen demand overload, acidogenic, and hydrogen-inhibited states of the anaerobic process. At any instant, process dynamics was modeled only by one of the submodels, while the others were considered trailing. The choice of a leading submodel was handled by a knowledge-based system, which analyzed available process variables, such as off-gas composition and reactor pH. The feasibility of the proposed method was demonstrated both by using the VSM to predict the outputs of a comprehensive process model, and the experimental results obtained in a pilot scale anaerobic fixed-bed bioreactor.

Advanced controlling of anaerobic digestion by means of hierarchical neural networks.In this work several feed-forward back propagation neural networks (FFBP) were trained in order to model, and subsequently control, methane production in anaerobic digesters. To produce data for the training of the neural nets, four anaerobic continuous stirred tank reactors were operated in steady-state conditions at organic loading rates (Br) of about 2 kg m(-3) d(-1) chemical oxygen demand, and disturbed by pulse-like increase of the organic loading rate. For the pulses additional carbon sources like flour, sucrose, 1,2-diethylen glycol or vegetable oil were added to the basic feed, which consisted of surplus and primary sludge of a local waste-water treatment plant, to increase the chemical oxygen demand. Measured parameters were: gas composition, methane production rate, volatile fatty acid concentration, pH, redox potential, volatile suspended solids and chemical oxygen demand of feed and effluent. A hierarchical system of nets was developed and embedded in a decision support system to find out which is the best feeding profile for the next time steps in advance. A 3-3-1 FFBP simulated the pH with a regression coefficient of 0.82. A 9-3-3 FFBP simulated the volatile fatty acid concentration in the sludge with a regression coefficient of 0.86. And a 9-3-2 FFBP simulated the gas production and gas composition with a regression coefficient of 0.90 and 0.80, respectively. A lab-scale anaerobic continuous stirred tank reactor controlled by this tool was able to maintain a methane concentration of about 60% at a rather high gas production rate of between 5 and 5.6 m3 m(-3) d(-1).

Fate of methidathion residues in biological waste during anaerobic digestion.The aim of this study was to examine the fate of the organothiophosphorus pesticide methidathion during anaerobic digestion of biological waste. Three reactor experiments were conducted under various conditions of temperature, pH and retention time. The influence of pH and temperature as well as the partitioning between solid and aqueous phase were studied in batch experiments. The mesophilic (25, 35 degrees C) reactor experiments showed a decline to about 10% of the maximum methidathion concentration within 30-80 d. In the thermophilic (55 degrees C) reactor experiment, methidathion disappeared within 20 d. The batch experiments showed an abiotic hydrolysis of methidathion over the experiment period of 4 d, accelerated by alkaline conditions (pH 10.5 and 12.8) and high temperatures (55 degrees C). The hydrolysis was also noticeable at a neutral pH, while methidathion was most stable at weakly acid pH values. Methidathion bonded strongly to the biological waste, and the amount released into the water phase was below the maximum aqueous solubility. About 10% of methidathion remained non-extractable. High concentrations of dissolved organic carbon and yeast extract as a model substance for disintegrated cells further reduced the content of methidathion in the water phase, possibly caused by co-sorption to the solid organic matter.

Kinetic analysis of the psychrophilic anaerobic digestion of wastewater derived from the production of proteins from extracted sunflower flour.A kinetic analysis of the anaerobic digestion process of wastewater derived from the production of protein isolates from extracted sunflower flour was carried out. The digestion was conducted in a laboratory-scale fluidized bed reactor with saponite (magnesium silicate) as support for the mediating bacteria at psychrophilic temperature (15-19 degrees C). Soluble chemical oxygen demand (COD(s)) removal efficiencies in the range of 95.9-69.0% were achieved in the reactor at organic loading rates (OLR) of between 0.57 and 2.49 g total COD (COD(t))/L d, hydraulic retention times (HRT) of between 20.0 and 4.5 days, and average feed total COD concentration of 11.3 g/L. The yield coefficient of methane production was 0.32 L of methane (at STP) per gram of COD(t) removed. The total volatile fatty acid (TVFA) levels and the TVFA/alkalinity ratio were lower than the suggested limits for digester failure for OLR and HRT up to 2.26 g COD(t)/L d and 5.0 days, respectively. The specific rate of substrate uptake, r (g COD(s)/g VSS d), correlated with the concentration of biodegradable substrate, S (g COD(s)/L), through an equation of the Michaelis-Menten type. The maximum substrate utilization rate, k, and the Michaelis constant, K(s)(), were found to be 0.125 g COD(s)/g VSS d and 124 mg COD(s)/L, respectively. This proposed model predicted the behavior of the reactor very accurately showing deviations lower than 10% between the experimental and theoretical values of substrate uptake rates. A mass (COD(t)) balance around the reactor allowed the COD equivalent of methane volume (W(CH)4) to be obtained, which gave a value of 2.89 g COD(t)/L CH(4), which was virtually coincident with the theoretical value of 2.86 g COD(t)/L CH(4).

Jejunal luminal microdialysate lactate in cardiac tamponade--effect of low systemic blood flow on gut mucosa.To assess gut mucosal metabolic response and susceptibility to dysoxia during low systemic blood flow induced by cardiac tamponade.
A randomized, controlled animal experiment.
National laboratory animal center.
Cardiac tamponade was induced in six pigs, while six additional pigs served as controls. In the tamponade group, fluid was injected into the pericardial space to reduce aortic flow, aiming first at a flow of 50 ml/kg per min and then at 30 ml/kg per min. Each step lasted for 60 min.
We measured luminal lactate by microdialysis and mucosal PCO(2) by tonometry in the mid-jejunum. Aortic and superior mesenteric artery blood flow, arterial and mesenteric venous lactate, pyruvate and ketone bodies and regional lactate exchange were measured. The distribution of aortic blood flow to superior mesenteric artery remained unchanged (baseline 14 (12-16)%; median (interquartile range), stepwise flow reduction 11 (10-17)% and 13 (12-19)%, NS) during reduction of aortic blood flow from 81 (61-95) ml/kg per min to 49 (47-49) ml/kg per min and 23 (21-27) ml/kg per min. Systemic hyperlactatemia developed early, whereas gut luminal lactate increased only after 60 min of hypoperfusion and could be largely explained by arterial hyperlactatemia. Mesenteric venous lactate-to-pyruvate (L/P) ratio increased after 30 min of tamponade, but both venous-arterial lactate and pyruvate gradients turned negative (gut lactate and pyruvate uptake). Mesenteric venous ss-hydroxybutyrate to acetoacetate ratio increased after 60 min. No changes were observed in the controls.
Jejunal mucosal dysoxia and anaerobic metabolism occurs late during low systemic blood flow induced by experimental cardiac tamponade.

Comment on "Influence on different natural zeolite concentration on the anaerobic digestion of piggery waste" (Bioresource Technology 80 (2001) 37-43).

Anaerobic digestion of alcohol sulfate (anionic surfactant) rich wastewater--batch experiments. Part II: influence of the hydrophobic chain length.High-strength wastewater of some industries contains high concentrations of surfactants and readily biodegradable compounds like starch and other carbohydrates. Wastewater of this type is found in the textile wet-processing industry (e.g., cotton desizing). The anaerobic degradation process in such wastewater is inhibited due to the high surfactant content. Alcohol sulfate (AS) of increasing hydrophobic chain length (C8 to C18, surfactant) and soluble starch (size) were used as model compounds in a series of batch experiments with high loadings of the biomass (65 g AS/kg cell dry weight; 910 g starch/kg cell dry weight). The strongest inhibition of the hydrolysis, acidogenesis and acetogenesis was found in reactors containing medium chain ASs like dodecyl sulfate. Starch hydrolyzation rates decreased by nearly 90% in the presence of dodecyl sulfate. Decyl sulfate caused the strongest inhibition of the methanogenesis and a decrease of the methane evolution by 75% within 87 days experimental time. It was found that short as well as long chain ASs caused only minor inhibition phenomena. The presented data can be used as a basis for the selection of suitable surfactants that do not (or not seriously) inhibit the anaerobic digestion of industrial effluents.

Anaerobic digestion of alcohol sulfate (anionic surfactant) rich wastewater--batch experiments. Part I: influence of the surfactant concentration.Textile wet processing wastewater (e.g., from cotton desizing) contains high concentrations of surfactants as well as readily biodegradable compounds like starch and other carbohydrates. Decyl sulfate (DS, surfactant) and soluble starch were used as model pollutants for biodegradation batch experiments. Very high loadings of the biomass were applied (DS: 21.7-217 g/kg cell dry weight (CDW); starch: 910 g/kg cell dry weight) to study inhibitory effects of the surfactant on the degradation cascade of the biopolymer. The starch hydrolysis was inhibited above sludge loadings of 65 g DS/kg CDW. Acidogenesis was the degradation step with the highest resistance towards inhibitory effects of the surfactant, whereas methanogenesis proved to be the most sensitive. The effects of the surfactant were described by the change of the methane evolution, which was reduced by 50% in 87 days with an addition of 58 g DS/kg CDW. The surfactant caused a high temporary accumulation of intermediates like volatile fatty acids. At the highest loading (217 g DS/kg CDW) the conversion of the substrate to methane was only minor.

Energy recovery from grass using two-phase anaerobic digestion.Municipal solid wastes are major sources of air, water and soil contamination. There is a need for alternative waste management techniques to better utilize the waste and minimize its adverse environmental impact. A two-phase pilot-scale bio-fermentation system was used to evaluate the feasibility of producing methane from grass waste, a major constituent of solid wastes. The bi-phasic system consists of a solid phase and a methane phase. Leachate is re-circulated through the solid phase until a desired level of volatile fatty acid (VFA) is accumulated in the leachate. The leachate is then transferred to the methane reactor where the VFA is converted to methane. The results showed that 67% of the volatile solids in the waste can be converted into soluble chemical oxygen demand in a period of six months. The system produced an average of 0.15 m3 of methane per kg of grass. The average methane concentration in the produced gas was 71%. A mathematical model was developed to estimate the methane and carbon dioxide concentrations in the gas phase as a function of reactor properties.

Isolation from a shea cake digester of a tannin-tolerant Escherichia coli strain decarboxylating p-hydroxybenzoic and vanillic acids.A facultatively anaerobic, mesophilic, Gram-negative, non-motile, non-sporulated bacterium, designated strain C2, was isolated from an anaerobic digester fed with shea cake rich in tannins and aromatic compounds and previously inoculated with anaerobic sludge from the pit of a slaughterhouse, after enrichment on tannic acid. The straight rods occurred singly or in pairs. Strain C2 fermented numerous carbohydrates (fructose, galactose, glucose, lactose, mannose, maltose, melibiose, raffinose, rhamnose, ribose, saccharose, sorbitol, trehalose, and xylose) and peptides (Biotrypcase, Casamino acids, and yeast extract), producing acid and gas, and had a G + C content of 51.6 +/- 0.1 mol %. Strain C2 was very closely related to Escherichia coli (= DSM 30083(T)) phylogenetically (similarity of 99%), genotypically (DNA homology of 79%), and phenotypically. The isolate tolerated tannic acid (hydrolyzable tannin) and decarboxylated by non-oxidative decarboxylation only p-hydroxybenzoic and vanillic acids to their corresponding phenol and guaicol, under anaerobic and aerobic conditions without further degradation. Adding glucose increased growth and the rate of conversion. High concentrations of p-hydroxybenzoic acid or vanillic acid inhibited growth, and decarboxylation could not occur completely, suggesting phenol toxicity. In contrast, the type strain of E. coli cannot metabolize p-hydroxybenzoic and vanillic acids, anaerobically or aerobically, with or without glucose added.

In vitro studies indicate that acid catalysed generation of N-nitrosocompounds from dietary nitrate will be maximal at the gastro-oesophageal junction and cardia.Dietary nitrate increases saliva nitrite levels and swallowed saliva is the main source of nitrite entering the acidic stomach. In acidic gastric juice, this nitrite can generate potentially carcinogenic N-nitrosocompounds. However, ascorbic acid secreted by the gastric mucosa can prevent nitrosation by converting the nitrite to nitric oxide.
To study the potential for N-nitrosocompound formation in a model simulating salivary nitrite entering the acidic stomach and the ability of ascorbic acid to inhibit the process. Concentrations of ascorbic acid, total vitamin C, nitrite, nitrosomorpholine, oxygen and nitric oxide were monitored during the experiments.
The delivery of nitrite into HCl containing thiocyanate resulted in nitrosation of morpholine, with the rate of nitrosation being greatest at pH 2.5. Under anaerobic conditions, ascorbic acid converted the nitrite to nitric oxide and prevented nitrosation. However, in the presence of dissolved air, the ascorbic acid was ineffective at preventing nitrosation. This was due to the nitric oxide combining with oxygen to reform nitrite and this recycling of nitrite depleting the available ascorbic acid. Further studies indicated that the rate of consumption of ascorbic acid by nitrite added to natural human gastric juice (pH 1.5) was extremely rapid with 200 micromol/l nitrite consumed 500 micromol/l ascorbic acid within 10 s.
The rapid consumption of ascorbic acid in acidic gastric juice by nitrite in swallowed saliva indicates that the potential for acid nitrosation will be maximal at the GO junction and cardia where nitrite first encounters acidic gastric juice. The high incidence of mutagenesis and neoplasia at this anatomical location may be due to acid nitrosation arising from dietary nitrate.

Interrelationships between dairy product intake, microflora metabolism, faecal properties and plasmid dissemination in gnotobiotic mice.We previously described the effects of intake of dairy products on plasmid dissemination in the digestive tract of gnotobiotic mice associated with human faecal flora (HFF) and found that yoghurt, heat-treated yoghurt (HTY) and milk reduced population levels of transconjugants compared with findings in mice fed a standard mouse diet. In the case of lactose intake, transconjugants were not detected. The aim of the present study was to assess the possible interrelationships between these observations and other variables (bacterial ecology, pH, moisture, enzyme activities, short-chain fatty acid (SCFA) contents, lactic acid contents). Much of the interest of the present comparison lies in the fact that the animals were homogeneous in terms of age, gender, food and intestinal microflora, owing to the gnotobiotic mouse model maintained in sterile isolators. We observed no variation in SCFA and lactic acid contents or in the population levels of strictly anaerobic strains of Bacteroides and Bifidobacterium, and of the facultative anaerobic recipient Escherichia coli PG1 strain. The main modifications were the reduction of population levels of transconjugants in mice receiving yoghurt, HTY and milk, and concomitantly an increase of beta-galactosidase and a decrease of beta-glucosidase activities, compared with control mice fed a standard diet. Total inhibition of plasmid transfer was observed in HFF mice consuming lactose, and concomitantly the two enzyme activities (beta-glucosidase and beta-galactosidase) were increased, compared with the findings in control mice fed a standard diet. In axenic mice consuming lactose, plasmid transfer occurred, beta-galactosidase was not detected and beta-glucosidase was decreased. It is therefore proposed that these two enzyme activities influence plasmid transfer and persistence of transconjugants in the digestive tract of HFF associated mice. When both activities were increased there was a total inhibition of plasmid transfer (case of lactose intake). When beta-galactosidase increased and beta-glucosidase decreased (case of yoghurt, HTY and milk), plasmid transfer occurred at a lower efficiency than in the control group, resulting in lower population levels of transconjugants.

Influence of the composition of in-vitro azo-reducing systems on the degradation kinetics of the model compound amaranth.The purpose of this study was to investigate the influence of the composition of in-vitro azo-reducing systems on the degradation kinetics of the model compound amaranth. The degradation kinetics of amaranth were determined under anaerobic conditions both in rat caecal content (ex-vivo) and in a variety of in-vitro degradation media derived from rat caecal content. It was observed that the reducing activity was highly dependent on the preparation method and composition of the degradation medium. In pure rat caecal content, the degradation of amaranth was apparent first order (k = 0.044 +/- 0.002 min(-1)), while dilution of the rat caecal content resulted in an apparent zero-order degradation. Both apparent zero- and first-order degradations were also observed in media made up of diluted rat caecal content to which cofactors such as NADP, D-glucose-6-phosphate, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and Bz were added. This study demonstrates that in-vitro azo-reducing kinetics are dependent on the composition and mode of preparation of the in-vitro media used. This has to be taken into account when evaluating the degradability of azo-aromatic drug delivery systems in-vitro.

Compartmental model for organic matter digestion in facultative ponds.A model has been developed for the digestion of organic matter in facultative ponds in tropical regions. Complete mixing has been assumed for the aerobic and anaerobic compartments. Settling, aerobic layer oxidation, and anaerobic layer methanogenesis are the main processes for organic matter removal in the water column. Exchange processes between layers are dispersive or soluble exchange, solubilization and transport of organic matter from sediments to water column are also taken into account. Degradation of organic matter in the sediments produces gaseous emissions to the water column. The exchange between bubbles ascending and the water column was measured. The model was calibrated with data obtained from a pilot facultative pond built in Muña Reservoir in Bogotá. The pond was sampled during 4 months to compare data between its water hyacinth covered section and uncovered section. The results clearly show the relative importance of different BOD removal processes in facultative ponds and suggest modifications to further improve performance. The results from the model suggest that internal loadings to facultative ponds due to solubilization and return of organic matter from the sediments to the aerobic layer greatly influence the soluble BOD effluent concentration. Aerobic degradation activity in the facultative pond does not affect significantly the effluent concentration. Anaerobic degradation activity in the facultative pond can more easily achieve increases in the removal efficiencies of BOD.

[Intestinal microflora and chronic inflammatory bowel diseases].

A mathematical model of a high sulphate wastewater anaerobic treatment system.As an aid to the design and operation of anaerobic digesters treating high sulphate waste waters, a mathematical model describing this treatment process has been developed. Apart from sulphate reduction, the model includes those reactions which occur either prior to sulphate reduction or in competition with it. These include, hydrolysis of solid substrates, acidogenesis. beta oxidation of long chain fatty acids, acetogenesis and methanogenesis. By incorporating terms for these reactions the model is able to simulate sulphate reduction using a wide range of carbon sources. Acid/base equilibrium chemistry is included in order to predict the pH and unionized component concentrations, needed for calculating inhibition. An activity based model is used, with the activity coefficients calculated using Debye-Hückle theory. The mass transfer rates of hydrogen, methane, carbon dioxide and hydrogen sulphide from the liquid to the vapour phase are also included. A number of different reactor types may be simulated, including a dynamic batch. steady state CSTR and dynamic CSTR. By separating the hydraulic and solids residence times, high rate reactors such as UASB and packed bed reactors may also be simulated. The model has been used to successfully predict the dynamic and steady state behaviour of a number of different reactor types, utilizing both simple and complex carbon sources.

Influence of in-vivo endotoxin liberation on anti-anaerobic antimicrobial efficacy.The ability of cefoxitin, clindamycin, imipenem, meropenem, metronidazole and piperacillin-tazobactam to cause gram-negative anaerobic bacteria to release endotoxin and the influence of such liberated endotoxin on antibiotic efficacy were investigated in in-vivo experiments in animal models. Experimental infections in various animal models (mice, hamster and infant rats) with cultures of wild and reference strains of Bacteroides fragilis group and Fusobacterium spp. were carried out by injecting these animals with different inocula (10(6), 10(7) and 10(8) cfu/ml) of the bacterial suspension, Appropriate doses of the test antibiotics were then injected and the plasma lipopolysaccharide (endotoxin) release measured by the Limulus Amoebocyte Lysate (LAL) Assay. Evidence of worsening of the outcome of the infections post-therapy was assessed, including histopathological changes in the internal organs. Infection with generalized septicemia was established with F. nucleatum in the mice and hamster models while with the B. fragilis group, infections only led to intra-abdominal abscess formation. Plasma endotoxin release was higher in animals infected with F. nucleatum than B. fragilis and was unrelated to the bacterial inoculum. Imipenem, meropenem and cefoxitin, in that order, induced the highest levels of endotoxin activities in the animal model, particularly following F. nucleatum infection. Histological examination of the internal organs of various animals showed variation in the pattern of histopathological changes; grades 3-4 inflammatory changes in the liver were observed in the Fusobacterium-infected animals that were treated with the carbapenems and cefoxitin. Therapy with the other antibiotics did not exacerbate anaerobic sepsis. In this study, bacteremia did not lead to massive endotoxin release and antibiotic therapy appeared not to have negatively influenced the outcome of most of the gram-negative anaerobic infections, except for infections caused by Fusobacterium spp. However, it is conceivable that if the gastrointestinal tract is the source of the endotoxin in patients with systemic inflammatory response syndrome, then the obligate anaerobes like Bacteroides and Fusobacterium species, which are members of the gut flora, may play a major role in the unfavorable outcome of antibiotic therapy in some of these infections.

Dependence of Mycobacterium bovis BCG on anaerobic nitrate reductase for persistence is tissue specific.Mycobacterium bovis BCG, the only presently available vaccine against tuberculosis, was obtained from virulent M. bovis after serial passages in vitro. The vaccine strain retained at least some of its original virulence, as it persists in immune-competent hosts and occasionally may cause fatal disease in immune-deficient hosts. Mycobacterial persistence in vivo is thought to depend on anaerobic metabolism, an apparent paradox since all mycobacteria are obligate aerobes. Here we report that M. bovis BCG lacking anaerobic nitrate reductase (NarGHJI), an enzyme essential for nitrate respiration, failed to persist in the lungs, liver, and kidneys of immune-competent (BALB/c) mice. In immune-deficient (SCID) mice, however, bacilli caused chronic infection despite disruption of narG, even if growth of the mutant was severely impaired in lungs, liver, and kidneys. Persistence and growth of BCG in the spleens of either mouse strain appeared largely unaffected by lack of anaerobic nitrate reductase, indicating that the role of the enzyme in pathogenesis is tissue specific. These data suggest first that anaerobic nitrate reduction is essential for metabolism of M. bovis BCG in immune-competent but not immune-deficient mice and second that its role in mycobacterial disease is tissue specific, both of which are observations with important implications for pathogenesis of mycobacteria and vaccine development.

Trypsin mediates growth phase-dependent transcriptional tegulation of genes involved in biosynthesis of ruminococcin A, a lantibiotic produced by a Ruminococcus gnavus strain from a human intestinal microbiota.Ruminococcin A (RumA) is a trypsin-dependent lantibiotic produced by Ruminococcus gnavus E1, a gram-positive strict anaerobic strain isolated from a human intestinal microbiota. A 12.8-kb region from R. gnavus E1 chromosome, containing the biosynthetic gene cluster of RumA, has been cloned and sequenced. It consisted of 13 open reading frames, organized in three operons with predicted functions in lantibiotic biosynthesis, signal transduction regulation, and immunity. One unusual feature of the locus is the presence of three almost identical structural genes, all of them encoding the RumA precursor. In order to determine the role of trypsin in RumA production, the transcription of the rum genes has been investigated under inducing and noninducing conditions. Trypsin activity is needed for the growth phase-dependent transcriptional activation of RumA operons. Our results suggest that bacteriocin production by R. gnavus E1 is controlled through a complex signaling mechanism involving the proteolytic processing of a putative extracellular inducer-peptide by trypsin, a specific environmental cue of the digestive ecosystem.

Guar gum as a carrier for colon specific delivery; influence of metronidazole and tinidazole on in vitro release of albendazole from guar gum matrix tablets.The present investigation is to study the influence of metronidazole and tinidazole on the usefulness of guar gum, a colon-specific drug carrier based on the metabolic activity of colonic bacteria, using matrix tablets of albendazole (containing 20% of guar gum) as a model formulation.
The matrix tablets of albendazole were subjected to in vitro drug release studies in simulated colonic fluids (4%w/v of rat caecal contents) obtained after oral treatment of rats for 7 days either with varying doses of metronidazole/ tinidazole and 1 mL of 2%w/v of guar gum or with 1 mL of 2%w/v of guar gum alone (control study) after completing the dissolution study in 0.1 M HCl (2 h) and pH 7.4 Sorensen's phosphate buffer (3 h).
The guar gum matrix tablets of albendazole were found degraded by colonic bacteria of rat caecal contents and released about 44% of albendazole in simulated colonic fluids (control study) at the end of 24 h indicating the susceptibility of the guar gum formulations to the rat caecal contents. However, the release of albendazole decreased when the drug release studies were carried out in caecal contents of rats treated for 7 days with either metronidazole (10-50 mg/ kg once daily) or tinidazole (10-30 mg/ kg once daily), and the release of albendazole from the matrix tablets was found to be dose dependent. The release of the drug from guar gum formulations was found to increase with a decrease in the dose of metronidazole/tinidazole administered. The antimicrobial activity of metronidazole/ tinidazole against the anaerobic bacteria of the rat"s GI flora might have been inhibited to a varying degree depending on the dose of metronidazole/tinidazole administered.
The results of the study showed that concomitant administration of either metronidazole or tinidazole with guar gum based colon-specific drug delivery systems may interfere with the targeting of drugs to colon.

Extracellular superoxide production by Enterococcus faecalis requires demethylmenaquinone and is attenuated by functional terminal quinol oxidases.The intestinal commensal bacterium, Enterococcus faecalis, is unusual among prokaryotic organisms in its ability to produce substantial extracellular superoxide. Transposon mutagenesis, allelic replacement, and electron spin resonance (ESR)-spin trapping showed that superoxide production and generation of derivative hydroxyl radical were dependent on membrane-associated demethylmenaquinone. Extracellular superoxide was generated through univalent reduction of oxygen by reduced demethylmenaquinone. Moreover, extracellular superoxide production was inhibited by exogenous haematin, an essential cofactor for cytochrome bd, and by fumarate, a substrate for fumarate reductase. As integral membrane quinol oxidases, cytochrome bd and fumarate reductase redox cycle demethylmenaquinone, and are necessary for aerobic and anaerobic respiration respectively. A rat model of intestinal colonization demonstrated that conditions exist in the mammalian intestinal tract that permit a mode of respiration for E. faecalis that results in the formation of hydroxyl radical. These results identify and characterize the mechanism by which E. faecalis generates extracellular free radicals.

CO2 in static mesenteric venous blood during intestinal ischemia and ischemic preconditioning in rats.During intestinal ischemia, CO2 accumulates in tissue as a result of bicarbonate buffering of anaerobic acid generation. Previous studies have shown that nitric oxide (NO) generated during ischemic preconditioning acts as a glycolytic modulator, thus decreasing tissue lactate production. We studied if ischemic preconditioning induces NO-dependent changes in static mesenteric venous blood Pco2 values and CO2 accumulation during intestinal ischemia. Superior mesenteric venous (smv) acid base variables were studied in 4 groups of rats: a control group (C), an ischemic (90-min period of flow arrest) group (I), an ischemic group subjected to previous ischemic preconditioning (P), and an ischemic group subjected to previous ischemic preconditioning in which nitric oxide synthase (NOS) was inhibited by N-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) administration (P+N). Preconditioning induced acidosis in smv blood during reperfusion before ischemia, but this effect was counteracted by L-NAME. Group P showed the lowest values of end-ischemic tissue lactate, smv blood CO2 accumulation, and LDH in perfusate, whereas group P+N showed the highest level of LDH in perfusate but the lowest end-ischemic smv blood Pco2 and acidity. We conclude that lower ischemic CO2 accumulation in static smv blood, but not lower end-ischemic Pco2, was related with the protective effect of ischemic preconditioning in our rat model. Thus, the use of stagnant smv blood Pco2 as an indicative of intestinal dysoxia can lead to misinterpretations if a broader acid-base picture is not considered.

Dynamical model development and parameter identification for an anaerobic wastewater treatment process.This paper deals with the development and the parameter identification of an anaerobic digestion process model. A two-step (acidogenesis-methanization) mass-balance model has been considered. The model incorporates electrochemical equilibria in order to include the alkalinity, which has to play a central role in the related monitoring and control strategy of a treatment plant. The identification is based on a set of dynamical experiments designed to cover a wide spectrum of operating conditions that are likely to take place in the practical operation of the plant. A step by step identification procedure to estimate the model parameters is presented. The results of 70 days of experiments in a 1-m(3) fermenter are then used to validate the model.

Evaluation of residual and therapeutic doses of tetracycline in the human-flora-associated (HFA) mice model.In order to evaluate an in vivo model system for assessing the effect of therapeutic and residue levels of tetracycline on human intestinal microflora, tetracycline was administered via drinking water (1, 10, and 100 mg/liter) to human-flora-associated (HFA) male and female mice. The effects of the antibiotic on fecal aerobic and anaerobic populations, selection of bacteria resistant to tetracycline, metabolic parameters of the microflora, and maintenance of the intestinal barrier against exogenous Salmonella (resistance to colonization) were recorded. In both sexes of mice, tetracycline exposure at 10 and 100 mg/liter induced the selection of several resistant bacterial species (Gram-positive anaerobes, Bacteroides fragilis, enterobacteria, and enterococci). This effect was also observed at the lowest dose (1 mg/liter) in female mice and indicates the potential sensitivity of this endpoint for evaluating the microbiological risk of tetracycline residues. The resistance to colonization was impaired at 100 mg/liter, a concentration corresponding to about half of the therapeutic doses in humans and animals. Metabolic parameters of the microflora were not affected by tetracycline at all levels. In this study, the no-observed-effect level (NOEL) of tetracycline on intestinal flora in this study was less than 1 mg of tetracycline per liter of drinking water. This concentration in the mouse corresponds to 0.125 mg of tetracycline per kilogram of body weight per day. Within the constraints of the experimental design employed here, the HFA mice model proved to be acceptable for studying dose-related effects of tetracycline on human intestinal microflora.

Periodontal disease as a specific, albeit chronic, infection: diagnosis and treatment.Periodontal disease is perhaps the most common chronic infection in adults. Evidence has been accumulating for the past 30 years which indicates that almost all forms of periodontal disease are chronic but specific bacterial infections due to the overgrowth in the dental plaque of a finite number of mostly anaerobic species such as Porphyromonas gingivalis, Bacteroides forsythus, and Treponema denticola. The success of traditional debridement procedures and/or antimicrobial agents in improving periodontal health can be associated with the reduction in levels of these anaerobes in the dental plaque. These findings suggest that patients and clinicians have a choice in the treatment of this overgrowth, either a debridement and surgery approach or a debridement and antimicrobial treatment approach. However, the antimicrobial approach, while supported by a wealth of scientific evidence, goes contrary to centuries of dental teaching that states that periodontal disease results from a "dirty mouth." If periodontal disease is demonstrated to be a risk factor for cardiovascular disease and stroke, it will be a modifiable risk factor since periodontal disease can be prevented and treated. Since the antimicrobial approach may be as effective as a surgical approach in the restoration and maintenance of a periodontally healthy dentition, this would give a cardiac or stroke patient and his or her physician a choice in the implementation of treatment seeking to improve the patient's periodontal condition so as to reduce and/or delay future cardiovascular events.

Modeling of soluble microbial products in anaerobic digestion: the effect of feed strength and composition.Continuously stirred tank reactors (CSTRs) and fill-and-draw reactors were used to investigate soluble microbial product (SMP) production during anaerobic digestion. Continuously stirred tank reactors with a glucose feed at three different strengths (5, 10, and 20 g chemical oxygen demand [COD]/L) and fill-and-draw reactors with four different feed compositions (glucose, glycerol, lactic acid, and starch at 10 g COD/L) were used with a solids retention time (SRT) of 15 days. The SMP production ranged from 102 to 588 mg COD/L for the glucose-fed CSTRs and between 157 and 1192 mg COD/L for the fill-and-draw reactors and was found to increase with increasing influent COD (SO). Normalized production of SMPs (SMP/So) ranged from 1.4 to 3% for the CSTRs and 12.0, 1.7, 14.7, and 3.6% for the glucose-, glycerol-, lactic acid-, and starch-fed reactors, respectively. A model incorporating SMP production and degradation was fitted to results from carbon-14 tracer studies in all of the reactors. The best-fit parameters from this model revealed that the type of SMP that dominates in any particular system depends not only on the strength of the feed but also on the composition of the feed and the type of reactor.

Ammonia inhibition in the anaerobic treatment of fishery effluents.Inhibition of the organic matter consumption rate of a saline and rich proteic effluent by free ammonia was assessed in anaerobic filters at 37 degrees C. Inhibition of substrate (total organic carbon, TOC) consumption rate by ammonia was fitted by the Luong and noncompetitive models. Calculated kinetic parameters using the Luong model were maximum specific growth rate, micromax = 0.28 day(-1); average saturation constant, Ks = 568 mg TOC/L; Luong inhibition parameter, KNH3 = 1707mg ammonia-nitrogen (NH3-N)/L; and Luong exponent, gamma = 0.283 and the noncompetitive calculated parameters were umax= 0.26 day(-1), Ks = 703 mg TOC/L, and inhibition parameter, INH3 = 325 mg NH3-N/L. The Luong and noncompetitive models predicted 50% inhibition of the substrate consumption rate at ammonia concentrations of 147 and 325 mg NH3-N/L, respectively, suggesting biomass adaptation to the ammonia concentration (80 mg NH3-N/L as average) at which the anaerobic filters were previously operating. Ammonia formation by anaerobic digestion of fishing effluent would produce a maximum of 65.1 and 58.6% inhibition of the efficiency, predicted by the Luong and noncompetitive models, respectively. Ammonia influence on the digestion steps was determined by comparing fishing effluent with volatile fatty acids as substrates. The noncompetitive model predicted a 50% inhibition of methane production rate at ammonia concentrations of 196.6 and 188.6 mg NH3-N/L for fishing effluent and volatile fatty acids, respectively, suggesting that the methanogenic step is the one most affected by ammonia.

Dynamic simulation of cyclic batch anaerobic digestion of cattle manure.Cyclic batch reactors with periodical feeds and extractions, are often used in cattle manure anaerobic digestion. The dynamic behavior of this type of reactor was simulated in this study. The kinetic model developed by I. Angelidaki et al. [Biotechnol. Bioeng. 42 (1993) 159], together with microbial growth kinetics, conventional material balances for an ideally cyclic batch reactor, liquid-gas interactions, and liquid phase equilibrium chemistry were used in this study. The model showed good agreement with the experimental data of R.I. Mackie and M.P. Bryant [Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 43 (1995) 346], and R. Borja et al. [Chem. Eng. J. 54 (1994) B9]. The effects of hydraulic retention time (HRT), organic loading rate, reactant concentrations, feeding interval, and initial conditions such as pH and ammonia concentration on process performance can be evaluated by the dynamic model. Also simulation results show that the equilibrium conditions can be considered for CO2 distribution between liquid and gas phases, especially for processes with long retention times.

Influence of different natural zeolite concentrations on the anaerobic digestion of piggery waste.The effect of different natural zeolite concentrations on the anaerobic digestion of piggery waste was studied. Natural zeolite doses in the range 0.2-10 g/l of wastewater were used in batch experiments, which were carried out at temperatures between 27 degrees C and 30 degrees C. Total chemical oxygen demand (COD), total and volatile solids, ammonia and organic nitrogen, pH, total volatile fatty acids (TVFA), alkalinity (Alk) and accumulative methane production were determined during 30 days of digestion. The anaerobic digestion process was favored by the addition of natural zeolite at doses between 2 and 4 g/l and increasingly inhibited at doses beyond 6 g/l. A first-order kinetic model of COD removal was used to determine the apparent kinetic constants of the process. The kinetic constant values increased with the zeolite amount up to a concentration of 4 g/l. The values of the maximum accumulative methane production (Gm) increased until zeolite concentrations of 2-4 g/l. The addition of zeolite reduced the values of the TVFA/ Alk ratio while increasing the pH values, and these facts could contribute to the process failure at zeolite doses of 10 g/l.

Struvite precipitation potential for nutrient recovery from anaerobically treated wastes.Geochemical equilibrium speciation modeling was used to determine optimum conditions for precipitation of magnesium ammonium phosphate, or struvite, for the recovery of nutrients from anaerobically digested wastes. Despite a wide range of pH values with the potential to precipitate struvite, the optimum pH was determined to be 9.0. Bench experiments conducted on effluent from an anaerobic sequencing batch reactor (ASBR) treating swine wastes achieved a maximum of 88% ammonia removal at a pH of 9.5 with added magnesium and phosphate to achieve an ammonium: magnesium: phosphate molar ratio of 1:1.25:1. Struvite precipitation was performed on a continuous basis in a pilot-scale ASBR treating swine wastes. Through the addition of supplemental magnesium and phosphate, the ammonia concentration was reduced from 1500 mg/L as nitrogen to less than 10 mg/L. The supenatant from the struvite precipitation clarifier was recycled to the feed of the ASBR without adverse impact, simulating on-farm effluent reuse as flush water.

Anaerobic biodegradation of sugar beet pulp.Sugar beet pulp is a by-product of sugar production and consists mainly of cellulose, hemicellulose and pectin. Its composition is suitable for biological degradation. A possible alternative for the utilization of this material (besides cattle feeding) can be anaerobic methanogenic degradation. It has an additional advantage--biogas production. Beet pulp was treated by a two-step anaerobic process. The first step consisted of hydrolysis and acidification. The second step was methanogenesis. In this paper, observation of the process of anaerobic degradation and determination of optimal parameters is discussed. A laboratory-scale model for sugar beet pulp anaerobic biodegradation was operated. Results of model performance have shown very good pulp digestion characteristics. In addition, high efficiency removal of organic matter was achieved. Methane yield was over 0.360 m3 kg(-1) dried pulp and excess sludge production was 0.094 g per gram COD added.

Isolation and characterization of human colonic bacteria able to hydrolyse chlorogenic acid.Conjugated hydroxycinnamates, such as chlorogenic acid (caffeoyl-quinic acid), are widely consumed in a Western diet, coffee being one of the richest sources. Ingested hydroxycinnamate esters can reach the large intestine essentially unaltered, and may then be hydrolysed by esterases produced by the indigenous microflora. This study is aimed at identifying bacterial species responsible for the release of natural antioxidants, such as hydroxycinnamic acids, in the human large intestine.
Thirty-five isolates recovered after anaerobic batch culture incubation of human faecal bacteria in a chlorogenic acid-based medium were screened for cinnamoyl esterase activity. Six isolates released the hydroxycinnamate, ferulic acid, from its ethyl ester in a plate-screening assay, and these were identified through genotypic characterization (16S rRNA sequencing) as Escherichia coli (three isolates), Bifidobacterium lactis and Lactobacillus gasseri (two strains). Chlorogenic acid hydrolysing activities were essentially intracellular. These cinnamoyl esterase-producing organisms were devoid of other phenolic-degrading activities.
The results show that certain gut bacteria, including some already recognized as potentially health-promoting (i.e. species belonging to the genera Bifidobacterium and Lactobacillus), are involved in the release of bioactive hydroxycinnamic acids in the human colon.
Free hydroxycinnamates, including caffeic, ferulic and p-coumaric acids, exhibit antioxidant and anticarcinogenic properties both in vitro and in animal models. Given that the gut flora has a major role in human nutrition and health, some of the beneficial effects of phenolic acids may be ascribed to the microflora involved in metabolism.

Advanced monitoring and control of anaerobic wastewater treatment plants: fault detection and isolation.In this paper, a fault detection and isolation approach using fuzzy logic is described for on-line analysis of problems occurring in anaerobic digestion processes. The measurements available on the process are preprocessed to build a vector of fault residuals indicating the magnitude of the problems. This vector is classified into a prespecified category (i.e., a class) which is a state of the system, according to discrimination fuzzy rules. Three different types of classes were defined in a hierarchical structure: sensors faults, sub-process faults and process faults. This approach was developed to handle in real time both technical and biological problems. Demonstration of the practical interest of this study was made using real life experiments and large improvement of the reliability and safety of the process was obtained, thus optimizing the overall wastewater treatment.

Advanced monitoring and control of anaerobic wastewater treatment plants: software sensors and controllers for an anaerobic digester.A mass balanced based model representing the dynamical behaviour of anaerobic digester has served as a basis for the design of software sensors for the concentration of inorganic carbon, alkalinity and volatile fatty acids. The predictions of the sensors are close to the actual off-line measurements. The model has also been used to design a model-based adaptive linearizing controller and a fuzzy controller whose objective is to regulate the ratio of the intermediate alkalinity over the total alkalinity below some desired value (0.3) under which the process is assumed to remain in stable conditions and avoid VFA accumulation. Both controllers were calibrated via extensive numerical simulations and implemented. The controllers proved successful in maintaining the ratio of TA over PA below 0.3, even in presence of large variations of the organic load.

Software sensor design for COD estimation in an anaerobic fluidized bed reactor.In this paper, a method for unknown input estimation in stochastic system is presented. A key problem in bioprocess systems is the absence, in some cases, of reliable on-line measurements for real time monitoring applications. In this paper, a software sensor for an anaerobic digester is presented. Unmeasured components of the influent are estimated from available on-line measurements. Unknown input Kalman filter is discussed to estimate the state and unknown input of the process. First, the theory of unknown inputs optimal filtering in the stochastic case is exposed and a design procedure is proposed. The observer is applied to an anaerobic fluidized bed reactor to estimate the variations in Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) concentration and experimental results are presented.

Hybrid neural modelling of an anaerobic digester with respect to biological constraints.A hybrid model for an anaerobic digestion process is proposed. The fermentation is assumed to be performed in two steps, acidogenesis and methanogenesis, by two bacterial populations. The model is based on mass balance equations, and the bacterial growth rates are represented by neural networks. In order to guarantee the biological meaning of the hybrid model (positivity of the concentrations, boundedness, saturation or inhibition of the growth rates) outside the training data set, a method that imposes constraints in the neural network is proposed. The method is applied to experimental data from a fixed bed reactor.

Mathematical modeling of the hydrolysis of anaerobic processes.In the recently published dynamic simulation model for mesophilic digestion of sewage sludge the hydrolysis constant refers to the total dry solid content without regarding their composition. To apply these models to the digestion of municipal solid waste, the hydrolysis constants of the various fractions must be considered. The major constituents of organic waste were identified as carbohydrates, proteins and lipids. For these three constituents the hydrolysis constants for thermophilic digestion were determined. The implementation of these constants into the existing dynamic models allowed a reasonable characterization of the digestion of municipal organic waste.

Rheology of sludge from double phase anaerobic digestion of organic fraction of municipal solid waste.In this paper experimental results on the anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge and organic fraction of municipal solid waste (OFMSW) by using a double phase process are reported. The long-term experiment has been carried out on a pilot scale plant, performed in different sets of operative conditions, during which granulometric distributions of particles in sludges and rheological properties of sludges were monitored. A significant fluidification of sludge was evidenced in the meso-thermo process, especially taking into account the variation in sludge behaviour from the first to the second phase. In the thermo-thermo process a fluidification higher than that shown in meso-thermo conditions is not observed, this suggesting that better results in terms of sludge conditioning can be obtained in a long time spent in thermophilic anaerobic digestion. Total volatile solids (TVS) and total fixed solids (TFS) become the most important parameters when mathematical modelling is applied to these processes. In the acidogenic phase, hydraulic retention time (HRT) and temperature are used to determine rigidity coefficient (RC), while only temperature is needed for yield stress (YC). Organic loading rate (OLR) and specific gas production (SGP) exert an important role in methanogenic phase description.

Emission of greenhouse gases from anaerobic digestion processes: comparison with other municipal solid waste treatments.This contribution analyzes the anaerobic digestion process and compares GHG emissions estimated for four different management processes for MSW (Municipal Solid Waste): biogasification, landfilling, composting and incineration. The comparison has been undertaken by considering in the estimation of the emissions the full cycle of MSW treatment, and not only the emissions derived from the fraction of MSW treated by each particular system. For instance, the fraction of MSW not submitted to biological treatment has to be incinerated or deposited in a landfill. The corresponding emissions of these processes have to be considered in the calculations of the final emissions.

Anaerobic hydrolysis kinetics of particulate substrates.A mathematical description of the surface related hydrolysis kinetics for spherical particles in a batch digestion is presented as well as a verification of this model with particulate starch as a substrate. Three substrates containing starch with different particle size distributions (PSD) were used. Two were obtained from fresh potatoes by wet sieving and for the third substrate a commercially available starch was used. The substrates were batch digested at 30 degrees C with granular sludge as inoculum and the hydrolysis efficiency was measured and fitted with the model. The results revealed that the hydrolysis rates for the three substrates were equal, viz. 0.4 +/- 0.1 g starch/m2/hour. Moreover, for the commercial starch not only the hydrolysis efficiency but also the changes within the PSD of the starch was determined several times with the use of light microscopy and image analysis. The obtained experimental PSD showed good similarity with the theoretical PSD from model calculations. This shows that the surface of the particulate substrate is the key factor for the hydrolysis process.

Two-phase anaerobic digestion of source sorted OFMSW (organic fraction of municipal solid waste): performance and kinetic study.The results of a two-phase system operated in different conditions, treating the source-sorted organic fraction of municipal solid waste (SS-OFMSW), coming mainly from fruit and vegetable markets, are presented. Hydraulic retention time (HRT) in the hydrolytic reactor and in the methanogenic reactor and also the temperature in the hydrolytic reactor (mesophilic and thermophilic conditions) are varied in order to evaluate the effect of these factors. The methanogenic reactor is always operated within the thermophilic range. Optimum operating conditions are found to be around 12 days (total system) using the mesophilic range of temperature in the first reactor. Specific gas production (SGP) in these conditions is around 0.6 m3/kg TVS. A kinetic study is also carried out, using the first and the step diffusional models. The latter gives much better results, with fitted constants comparable to other studies. Finally, a comparison with a one-phase system is carried out, showing that a two-phase system is much more appropriate for the digestion of this kind of highly biodegradable substrate in thermophilic conditions.

SBR as a relevant technology to combine anaerobic digestion and denitrification in a single reactor.Two laboratory-scale sequencing batch reactors were used to study biological treatment of carbon and nitrogen in a new combined anaerobic-aerobic system. Piggery wastewater was used as a model effluent. The anaerobic reactor, fed with raw wastewater and nitrite/nitrate recycling from the aerobic reactor, carried out denitrification and anaerobic digestion of organic carbon. In the aerobic reactor, organic carbon removal and nitrification of ammonia to mainly nitrite occurred. Three recycle-to-influent ratios from 1 to 3 were tested. The higher the recycle-to-influent ratio, the lower the concentrations of nitrogen oxides in the final effluent. Carbon removal efficiency was quite stable, whatever the ratio. However, the effect of this ratio was attenuated because of denitrification in the aerobic reactor, which increased the performances of the process. The use of sequencing batch reactors was essential to apply the configuration proposed, in order to combine denitrification and methanogenesis that require antagonistic conditions.

Hybrid modelling of anaerobic wastewater treatment processes.This paper presents a hybrid approach for the modelling of an anaerobic digestion process. The hybrid model combines a feed-forward network, describing the bacterial kinetics, and the a priori knowledge based on the mass balances of the process components. We have considered an architecture which incorporates the neural network as a static model of unmeasured process parameters (kinetic growth rate) and an integrator for the dynamic representation of the process using a set of dynamic differential equations. The paper contains a description of the neural network component training procedure. The performance of this approach is illustrated with experimental data.

Timing, localization, and persistence of colonization by segmented filamentous bacteria in the neonatal mouse gut depend on immune status of mothers and pups.As a member of the indigenous gut mucosal microbiota, segmented filamentous bacteria (SFB) colonize the guts of a variety of vertebrates and invertebrates. They are potent microbial stimuli of the gut mucosal immune system. In the small intestines of mice and rats, it has been observed that SFB are absent during the suckling period and appear in high numbers shortly after weaning, then quickly retreat to the cecum and large intestine. In this study, we explored whether this microecological phenomenon resulted from the interaction between SFB and the passively acquired maternal mucosal immunity and/or the actively acquired mucosal immunity. We set up a mouse model by reciprocal crossings and backcrossings of SFB-monoassociated, formerly germ-free, immunocompetent (+/+) BALB/c mice and immunodeficient (scid/scid) mice to produce pups which are either immunocompetent (scid/+) or immunodeficient (scid/scid) and are born either to immunocompetent (scid/+) mothers or to immunodeficient (scid/scid) mothers. We monitored the number of SFB on the mucosa of the small intestine in the four different groups of mice after birth, as well as the level of passively acquired antibodies, the active gut mucosal immune responses, and immunoglobulin A (IgA) coating of SFB in the gut. The results showed that, irrespective of whether the pups were scid/scid or scid/+, SFB could be found earlier on the mucosa of the small intestine in pups born to scid/scid mothers, appearing from day 13 and rapidly reaching a climax around weaning time on day 28, compared to the significantly delayed colonization in the pups of scid/+ mothers, starting from day 16 and peaking around days 28 to 32. After the climax, SFB quickly declined to very low levels in the small intestines of scid/+ pups of either scid/scid mothers or scid/+ mothers, whereas they remained at high levels in scid/scid pups at least until day 70, the last observation time in this study. The dynamic changes in SFB colonization of the small intestines of the different groups of pups may be related to the dynamic changes in the levels of SFB coated with secretory IgA (sIgA), which resulted from the significantly different levels of sIgA obtained from the mothers' milk during the suckling period and, later, of self-produced sIgA in the small intestine. Nevertheless, it is evident that the timing, localization, and persistence of colonization of the neonatal gut by SFB depends on the immune status of both mothers and pups.

Characterisation of organic matter from anaerobic digestion of organic waste by aerobic microbial activity.The aim of this study was to examine whether the characterisation of organic matter on the basis of an oxygen uptake rate (OUR) could be applied to organic waste from an anaerobic waste treatment process. Three anaerobic digestion experiments were carried out in a bioreactor. Volatile fatty acids (VFA) and dissolved organic carbon (DOC) were monitored. OUR-experiments were carried out with diluted samples from the process. The graphs of the OUR-experiments showed a clear lag-phase, which was due to the slow adaptation of aerobic microorganisms. Model simulations of the OUR versus time curve showed sufficient agreement, if based on one fraction of readily biodegradable and two fractions of less easily biodegradable organic matter. The shape of the simulated graphs was affected considerably by the value of the maintenance energy requirement rate qm and could be improved by reducing the standard value qm = 1 d(-1) to qm = 0.1 d(-1). Only little agreement was achieved when comparing the results of the OUR-experiments with the VFA- and DOC-concentrations. Experiments with additional trace elements and vitamins led to an increase in the OUR and proved that the oxygen consumption was not exclusively determined by the availability of organic matter.

Simulation of low temperature anaerobic digestion of dairy and swine manure.The data reported by L.M. Safley, P.W. Westerman [Bioresource Technology 47 (2) (1994) 165-171] from the laboratory digestion of dairy and swine manure at psychrophilic temperatures (i.e., 10-23 degrees C) have been used to determine the response of the latest comprehensive dynamic mathematical model of methanogenesis [D.T. Hill, S.A. Cobb, Transactions of the ASAE 39 (2) (1996) 565-573] in this low temperature range. Extensive performance data from digesters using animal waste in this temperature range have been lacking, thus allowing limited validation of the comprehensive model. The results of the comprehensive model simulations were compared with the actual data reported by Safley and Westerman (loc. cit.) and with their empirical regression models. Results indicate that the comprehensive model is as accurate as Safley and Westerman's models for three of the four cases reported, but shows a great dissimilarity for the fourth case.

Impact of oxygen on metabolic fluxes and in situ rates of reductive acetogenesis in the hindgut of the wood-feeding termite Reticulitermes flavipes.The symbiotic digestion of lignocellulose in the hindgut of the wood-feeding termite Reticulitermes flavipes is characterized by two major metabolic pathways: (i) the oxidation of polysaccharides to acetate by anaerobic hydrogen-producing protozoa; and (ii) the reduction of CO2 by hydrogenotrophic acetogenic bacteria. Both reactions together would render the hindgut largely homoacetogenic. However, the results of this study show that the situation is more complex. By microinjection of radiolabelled metabolites into intact agarose-embedded hindguts, we showed that the in situ rates of reductive acetogenesis (3.3 nmol termite(-1) h(-1)) represent only 10% of the total carbon flux in the living termite, whereas 30% of the carbon flux proceeds via lactate. The rapid turnover of the lactate pool (7.2 nmol termite(-1) h(-1)) consolidates the previously reported presence of lactic acid bacteria in the R. flavipes hindgut and the low lactate concentrations in the hindgut fluid. However, the immediate precursor of lactate remains unknown; the low turnover rates of injected glucose (< 0.5 nmol termite(-1) h(-1)) indicate that free glucose is not an important intermediate under in situ conditions. The influence of the incubation atmosphere on the turnover rate and the product pattern of glucose and lactate confirmed that the influx of oxygen via the gut epithelium and its reduction in the hindgut periphery have a significant impact on carbon and electron flow within the hindgut microbial community. The in situ rates of reductive acetogenesis were not significantly affected by the presence of oxygen or exogenous H2, which is in agreement with a localization of homoacetogens in the anoxic gut lumen rather than in the oxic periphery. This adds strong support to the hypothesis that the co-existence of methanogens and homoacetogens in this termite is based on the spatial arrangement of the different populations of the gut microbiota. A refined model of metabolic fluxes in the hindgut of R. flavipes is presented.

Novel method for enhancing permeate flux of submerged membrane system in two-phase anaerobic reactor.A two-phase anaerobic reactor system with a submerged membrane in the acidogenic reactor was designed for the enhancement of organic acid conversion and methane recovery. A submerged membrane system in a two-phase anaerobic reactor was tested to increase the sludge retention time (SRT) of acidogen and to enhance the solid separation. The pilot plant experiment was performed for piggery wastewater treatment for a year. The membrane material used was mixed esters of cellulose of 0.5 micron pore size. COD removal efficiency was 80% and the methane production showed 0.32 m3/kg COD removed for the submerged membrane system in the anaerobic digester. As the cake resistance of the membrane caused a serious problem, a stainless-steel prefilter and air backwashing methods were applied to minimize the cake resistance effectively. Among the tested prefilters, the 63 microns pore prefilter showed the best performance for reducing cake resistance and a successful long-term operation. By cleaning with alkali first and acidic solutions later, the permeate flux decreased by long-term operation was recovered to 89% of that with a new membrane.

Simultaneous measurement of hepatic tissue pH, venous oxygen saturation and hemoglobin by near infrared spectroscopy.The purpose of this study was to investigate the feasibility of using near infrared (NIR) spectroscopy of the liver to simultaneously assess oxygen content in combination with tissue pH, an indicator of anaerobic metabolism. Six anesthetized swine were subjected to 45 min of hemorrhagic shock followed by resuscitation with blood and crystalloid. Calibration models between NIR spectra and reference measurements of tissue pH, hepatic venous oxygen saturation (S(V)O2), and blood hemoglobin concentration (Hb) were developed using partial least-squares regression. Model accuracy was assessed using cross validation. The average correlation (R2) between NIR and reference measurements was 0.87, 0.68, and 0.93, respectively for pH, Hb, and S(V)O2. Estimated accuracy, the root mean squared deviation between spectral, and reference measurements was 0.03 pH units, 0.3 g/dL, and 6%. NIR determination of hepatic oxygen content and tissue pH during shock and resuscitation demonstrated that there can be a variance between hepatic venous oxygenation and regional tissue acidosis. NIR spectroscopy provides a technique to explore the implications of post-shock depression of tissue pH and evaluate new methods of resuscitation.

Clostridium difficile toxins disrupt epithelial barrier function by altering membrane microdomain localization of tight junction proteins.The anaerobic bacterium Clostridium difficile is the etiologic agent of pseudomembranous colitis. C. difficile toxins TcdA and TcdB are UDP-glucosyltransferases that monoglucosylate and thereby inactivate the Rho family of GTPases (W. P. Ciesla, Jr., and D. A. Bobak, J. Biol. Chem. 273:16021-16026, 1998). We utilized purified reference toxins of C. difficile, TcdA-10463 (TcdA) and TcdB-10463 (TcdB), and a model intestinal epithelial cell line to characterize their influence on tight-junction (TJ) organization and hence to analyze the mechanisms by which they contribute to the enhanced paracellular permeability and disease pathophysiology of pseudomembranous colitis. The increase in paracellular permeability induced by TcdA and TcdB was associated with disorganization of apical and basal F-actin. F-actin restructuring was paralleled by dissociation of occludin, ZO-1, and ZO-2 from the lateral TJ membrane without influencing the subjacent adherens junction protein, E-cadherin. In addition, we observed decreased association of actin with the TJ cytoplasmic plaque protein ZO-1. Differential detergent extraction and fractionation in sucrose density gradients revealed TcdB-induced redistribution of occludin and ZO-1 from detergent-insoluble fractions constituting "raft-like" membrane microdomains, suggesting an important role of Rho proteins in maintaining the association of TJ proteins with such microdomains. These toxin-mediated effects on actin and TJ structure provide a mechanism for early events in the pathophysiology of pseudomembranous colitis.

Influence of microbial species on small intestinal myoelectric activity and transit in germ-free rats.The effect of an intestinal microflora consisting of selected microbial species on myoelectric activity of small intestine was studied using germ-free rat models, with recording before and after specific intestinal colonization, in the unanesthetized state. Intestinal transit, neuropeptides in blood (RIA), and neuromessengers in the intestinal wall were determined. Clostridium tabificum vp 04 promoted regular spike burst activity, shown by a reduction of the migrating myoelectric complex (MMC) period from 30.5 +/- 3.9 min in the germ-free state to 21.2 +/- 0.14 min (P < 0.01). Lactobacillus acidophilus A10 and Bifidobacterium bifidum B11 reduced the MMC period from 27.9 +/- 4.5 to 21.5 +/- 2.1 min (P < 0.02) and accelerated small intestinal transit (P < 0.05). Micrococcus luteus showed an inhibitory effect, with an MMC period of 35.9 +/- 9.3 min compared with 27.7 +/- 6.3 min in germ-free rats (P < 0.01). Inhibition was indicated also for Escherichia coli X7 gnotobiotic rats. No consistent changes in slow wave frequency were observed. The concentration of neuropeptide Y in blood decreased after introduction of conventional intestinal microflora, suggesting reduced inhibitory control. Intestinal bacteria promote or suppress the initiation and aboral migration of the MMC depending on the species involved. Bacteria with primitive fermenting metabolism (anaerobes) emerge as important promoters of regular spike burst activity in small intestine.

Evaluation of parameters for monitoring an anaerobic co-digestion process.The system investigated in this study is an anaerobic digester at a municipal wastewater treatment plant operating on sludge from the wastewater treatment, co-digested with carbohydrate-rich food-processing waste. The digester is run below maximum capacity to prevent overload. Process monitoring at present is not extensive, even for the measurement of on-line gas production rate and off-line pH. Much could be gained if a better program for monitoring and control was developed, so that the full capacity of the system could be utilised without the risk of overload. The only limit presently set for correct process operation is that the pH should be above 6.8. In the present investigation, the pH was compared with alkalinity, gas production rate, gas composition and the concentration of volatile fatty acids (VFA). Changes in organic load were monitored in the full-scale anaerobic digester and in laboratory-scale models of the plant. Gas-phase parameters showed a slow response to changes in load. The VFA concentrations were superior for indicating overload of the microbial system, but alkalinity and pH also proved to be good monitoring parameters. The possibility of using pH as a process indicator is, however, strongly dependent on the buffering capacity. In this study, a minor change in the amount of carbohydrates in the substrate had drastic effects on the buffering effect of the system.

Metabolic component of intestinal PCO(2) during dysoxia.The adequacy of intestinal perfusion during shock and resuscitation might be estimated from intestinal tissue acid-base balance. We examined this idea from the perspective of conventional blood acid-base physicochemistry. As the O(2) supply diminishes with failing blood flow, tissue acid-base changes are first "respiratory, " with CO(2) coming from combustion of fuel and stagnating in the decreasing blood flow. When the O(2) supply decreases to critical, the changes become "metabolic" due to lactic acid. In blood, the respiratory vs. metabolic distinction is conventionally made using the buffer base principle, in which buffer base is the sum of HCO(3)(-) and noncarbonate buffer anion (A(-)). During purely respiratory acidosis, buffer base stays constant because HCO(3)(-) cannot buffer its own progenitor, carbonic acid, so that the rise of HCO(3)(-) equals the fall of A(-). During anaerobic "metabolism," however, lactate's H(+) is buffered by both A(-) and HCO(3)(-), causing buffer base to decrease. We quantified the partitioning of lactate's H(+) between HCO(3)(-) and A(-) buffer in anoxic intestine by compressing intestinal segments of anesthetized swine into a steel pipe and measuring PCO(2) and lactate at 5- to 10-min intervals. Their rises followed first-order kinetics, yielding k = 0. 031 min(-1) and half time = approximately 22 min. PCO(2) vs. lactate relations were linear. Over 3 h, lactate increased by 31 +/- 3 mmol/l tissue fluid (mM) and PCO(2) by approximately 17 mM, meaning that one-half of lactate's H(+) was buffered by tissue HCO(3)(-) and one-half by A(-). The data were consistent with a lumped pK(a) value near 6.1 and total A(-) concentration of approximately 30 mmol/kg. We conclude that the respiratory vs. metabolic distinction could be made in tissue by estimating tissue buffer base from measured pH and PCO(2).

[Kinetics for terephthalic acid anaerobic degradation with easily biodegradable organic material co-existence].The fact of preferential substrate utilization results in a sequence of substrate attack. As typically, the easily biodegradable substrates in TA-containing wastewater are degraded firstly through methane fermentation pathway, and just those intermediate metabolites have been proved to be inhibitors for TA biodegradation. Moreover, TA itself can inhibit the TA biodegradation, too. A kinetic model for the anaerobic digestion of wastewater containing both TA and easily biodegradable pollutants is constructed as q = qmax [formula: see text], The model parameters are estimated with non-linear regression method, the values are as follows: qmax = 1972.0 mgTA/gVSS.d; Ks = 20.2844 gTA/L; Ki,i = 2.041 gCOD/L; Ki,s = 0.0108 gTA/L. The experimental data verification for the model equation is satisfactory. According to the model analysis, a new strategy, a two-step anaerobic system, dealing with this kind of wastewater is suggested.

Establishment of a novel in vitro system for studying the interaction of xenobiotic metabolism of liver and intestinal microflora.We developed a new two-chamber system for the coculture of hepatocytes and fecal microflora under aerobic and anaerobic conditions, respectively, to investigate the sequential metabolism of chemicals by the liver and microflora in vitro. The culture device consisted of two chambers separated by a permeable polycarbonate membrane. In the aerobic compartment, hepatocytes were cultivated as a monolayer on the membrane and in the anaerobic compartment fecal microflora as a suspension. To characterize the metabolic capacity of the microflora and hepatocytes, various marker enzymes were studied. Azoreductase, nitroductase, beta-glucuronidase, beta-glucosidase and sulphatase were tested in the microflora of the feces from three volunteers who had had significantly different eating habits for years (daily meat, mixed diet, vegetarian). The microflora exhibited significant activities and the various enzymes differed only moderately in the samples from the three volunteers. For rat hepatocytes the activities of various cytochrome P450 forms and conjugating enzymes served as markers. The enzyme activities were tested in the coculture system during a 4-h culture period intended for the test protocol. Deethylation of ethoxycoumarin and 2alpha-, 6beta- and 16alpha-hydroxylation of testosterone decreased by about 30%, 25%, 40% and 20%, respectively, while there was no loss of glucuronidation and sulphonation of 3-OH-benzo(a)pyrene nor of glutathione conjugation of 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene during the 4-h culture period. The activities of the tested hepatic phase I and II enzymes were not changed after coculture of the hepatocytes with the microflora for 4 h. The applicability of the in vitro system for studying the metabolic interaction of liver and microflora was demonstrated using 7-ethoxycoumarin and the developmental drug EMD 57033, a thiadiazinon derivative from Merck KGaA, as model compounds. Both compounds were oxidized and conjugated by liver cells. In the coculture of hepatocytes and fecal microflora the resulting glucuronides and sulphoconjugates were split by hydrolytic enzymes of the intestinal microflora.

Fumarate reductase is essential for Helicobacter pylori colonization of the mouse stomach.Fumarate reductase (FRD) is the key enzyme in fumarate respiration induced by anaerobic growth of bacteria. In Helicobacter pylori, this enzyme appears to be constitutively expressed under microaerobic conditions and is not essential for its survival in vitro. In this study, the role of FRD in the colonization of H. pylori was investigated using a mouse model. The frdA gene coding for subunit A of FRD, and two control genes, copA and copP associated with the export of copper out of H. pylori, were inactivated by insertion of the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase cassette into these individual genes. The isogenic mutants of H. pylori strain AH244 were obtained by natural transformation. Seventy-five ICR mice (15 mice/group) were orogastrically dosed with either the wild type H. pylori strain AH244, its isogenic mutants, or Brucella broth (negative control). Five mice from each group were killed at 2, 4 and 8 weeks post-inoculation (WPI), respectively. H. pylori colonization was not detected in mouse gastric mucosa infected with the frdA mutant at any time point in the study by both quantitative culture and PCR. In contrast, the mice inoculated with either wild type AH244, copA or copPH. pylori mutants became readily infected. These data indicate that FRD plays a crucial role in H. pylori survival in the gastric mucosa of mice. Given that FRD, present in all H. pylori strains, is immunogenic in H. pylori -infected patients and H. pylori growth in vitro can be inhibited by three anthelmintics (morantel, oxantel and thiabendazole), this enzyme could potentially be used both as a novel drug target as well as in the development of vaccines for H. pylori prevention and eradication.

A mouse model of chronic bacterial lesions (a cotton trap) for studying oral bacteria-lymphocyte interactions.We established a mouse model of chronic bacterial infection (cotton trap) to get a deeper insight into interactions between immune cells and bacterial strains, that are most commonly isolated from periapical processes. We have used flow cytometry to identify the presence of intracellular cytokines of activated T cells collected from cotton traps, previously infected with different strains of bacteria and implanted subcutaneously into the back of the mice. We provide an evidence that anaerobic bacteria (Bacteroides sp.) and nocardiae are more effective in inducing cytotoxic immunity and Th1 response compared to oral streptococci. Differences in immune response against anaerobic bacteria when compared to streptococci are probably dependent on some non-specific immune cell stimulation (e.g. by bacterial cell wall components), nevertheless the role of specific antigen-dependent immune mechanism can not be excluded.

Immune response in lymphocyte cultures stimulated by oral bacteria preparations.Lymphocyte cultures were used as an in vitro experimental model to get a deeper insight into immune response to oral bacteria in periapical granulomas. Lymphocytes isolated from leucocyte concentrate were in lymphocyte cultures stimulated by antigen preparations of oral bacteria. Lymphocyte subsets that have developed in lymphocyte cultures after a week of stimulation were analysed by flow cytometry. A significant increase in expression of INF-gamma molecules in CD3+ cells stimulated by antigen preparations of oral streptococci was found, compared with negative control. On the other hand we observed a significant increase in expression of IL-4 in CD3+ cells stimulated by antigens of anaerobic bacteria, compared with negative control. Our results show that antigens of oral streptococci in in vitro lymphocyte cultures induce the differentiation of T helper cells into Th2 cells and that antigen preparations of anaerobic bacteria induce the differentiation of T helper cells into Th1 cells. Furthermore, an increased expression of HLA-DR molecules on CD8+ T cells stimulated by antigens of oral streptococci was found, compared with negative control.

Characterization of four outer membrane proteins involved in binding starch to the cell surface of Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron.Bacteroides thetaiotaomicron, a gram-negative obligate anaerobe, utilizes polysaccharides by binding them to its cell surface and allowing cell-associated enzymes to hydrolyze them into digestible fragments. We use the starch utilization system as a model to analyze the initial steps involved in polysaccharide binding and breakdown. In a recent paper, we reported that one of the outer membrane proteins involved, SusG, had starch-degrading activity but was not sufficient for growth on starch. Moreover, SusG alone did not have detectable starch binding activity. Previous studies have shown that starch binding is essential for starch utilization. In this paper, we report that four other outer membrane proteins, SusC through SusF, are responsible for starch binding. Results of (14)C-starch binding assays show that SusC and SusD both contribute a significant amount of starch binding. SusE also appears to contribute substantially to starch binding. Using affinity chromatography, we show in vitro that these Sus proteins interact to bind starch. Moreover, protease accessibility of either SusC or SusD greatly increased when one was expressed without the other. This finding supports the hypothesis that SusC and SusD interact in the outer membrane. Evidence from additional protease accessibility studies suggests that SusC, SusE, and SusF are exposed on the cell surface. Our results demonstrate that SusC and SusD act as the major starch binding proteins on the cell surface, with SusE enhancing binding. SusF's role in starch utilization has yet to be determined, although the fact that starch protected it from proteolytic attack suggests that it does bind starch.

Microbial degradation of phthalic acid esters under anaerobic digestion of sludge.The microbial degradation by anaerobic sludge of three phthalates, priority pollutants, listed by both China National Environmental Monitoring Center and the U.S.EPA, namely, dimethyl (DMP), di-n-butyl (DBP) and di-n-octyl (DOP) phthalates was investigated. The experimental results indicated that the biodegradation rate and the biodegradability of three phthalates under anaerobic conditions appeared to be related to the length of the alkyl-side chains. More than 90% of DMP and DBP with the short alkyl-side chain phthalates can be degraded, whereas the DOP degradation appeared to be relatively slow under the same experimental conditions. The quantity of methane produced was measured and the results showed that both the ester groups and the phthalate ring were mineralized at a significant rate. The kinetics study demonstrated that the biodegradation of three phthalates conformed to the first-order model with respect to their concentrations.

In vitro fermentability of dextran, oligodextran and maltodextrin by human gut bacteria.Anaerobic batch culture fermenters were used for a preliminary screening of the in vitro utilization by human gut microflora of dextran and novel oligodextrans (I, II and III) produced in the University of Reading (UK). Glucose and fructooligosaccharides (FOS) were used as reference carbohydrates. As expected, FOS acted as a good prebiotic in that it selectively increased numbers of bifidobacteria in the early stages of the fermentation. Dextran and oligodextrans each resulted in an enrichment of bifidobacteria in the batch cultures, with high levels of persistence up to 48 h. They also produced elevated levels of butyrate ranging from 5 to 14.85 mmol/l. To more effectively simulate conditions that prevail in different regions of the large intestine, a three-stage continuous culture cascade system was used to study further the fermentation of dextran, a low-molecular-mass oligodextran (IV) and maltodextrin. Oligodextran IV was shown to be the best substrate for bifidobacteria and lactobacilli with steady-state populations of bifidobacteria and lactobacilli being higher in all three vessels of the gut model than the respective populations resulting from dextran and maltodextrin. A maximum difference of 1.9 log was observed in vessel 1 for both bifidobacteria and lactobacilli in the case of dextran fermentation, with 1.4 log and 0.8 log in vessel 3 were the maximum differences for bifidobacteria and lactobacilli when maltodextrin was used as the carbohydrate source. Moreover, dextran and oligodextran appeared to stimulate butyrate production, with a maximum production up to 25.39 mmol/l in vessel 3 when fermenting dextran, followed by 21.70 mmol/l in the case of oligodextran IV and only 12.64 mmol/l in the case of maltodextrin.

Modeling and optimization of anaerobic digested sludge converting starch to hydrogen.The pH and hydraulic retention time (HRT) of a chemostat reactor were varied according to a central composite design methodology with the aim of modeling and optimizing the conversion of starch into hydrogen by microorganisms in an anaerobic digested sludge. Experimental results from 23 runs indicate that a maximum hydrogen production rate of 1600 L/m(3)/d under the organic loading rate of 6 kg starch m(3)/d obtained at pH = 5.2 and HRT = 17 h. Throughout this study, the hydrogen percentage in the biogas was approximately 60% and no methanogenesis was observed. while the reactor was operated with HRT of 17 h, hydrogen was produced within a pH range between 4.7 and 5.7. Alcohol production rate was greater than hydrogen production rate if the pH was lower than 4.3 or higher than 6.1. Supplementary experiments confirm that the optimum conditions evaluated in this study were highly reliable; while a hydrogen production yield of 1.29 l H(2)/g starch-COD was obtained. An examination of the response surfaces, including hydrogen, volatile fatty acids (VFA) and alcohols production, led us to the belief that clostridium sp. predominated in the anaerobic hydrogen-producing microorganisms in this study. Experiment results obtained emphasize that the response of metabolites was a more useful indicator than hydrogenic activity for obtaining efficient hydrogen production. Furthermore, expressions of contour plots indicate that Response-Surface Methodology may provide easily interpretable advice on the operation of a hydrogen-producing bioprocess.

Interactions mediating bacterial translocation in the immature intestine.Systemic disease caused by transmucosal passage of enterovirulent bacteria and toxins from the gut lumen into the mesenteric lymph nodes (MLN) is reviewed, with particular concern for bacterial interactions in the developing gut of premature newborns. Anaerobic bacteria are rarely observed to translocate to the MLN. Bifidobacterial strains have been tested for their abilities to adhere to enterocyte-like Caco-2 cells in culture. We have investigated the inhibitory effect of adherent human bifidobacterial strains against colonization by a number of diarrheagenic bacteria (Escherichia coli O157; Salmonella typhimurium) and viruses (murine and rhesus rotavirus), in various in vitro and in vivo models. The phagocytic cell (macrophage) may be a key factor in bacterial translocation (BT). Human breast milk contains abundant bioactive substances (immunologic, nutritional) that provide protective effects through inhibition of bacterial overgrowth and BT. New biotherapeutic therapies that stimulate beneficial anaerobic microflora (Lactobacillus, Bifidobacterium) are promising avenues of research to combat BT in disease treatment.

The effect of a model melanoidin mixture on faecal bacterial populations in vitro.The Maillard reaction produces coloured, macromolecular materials (melanoidins) in a variety of foods, on heating. Significant quantities may enter the human gut on a daily basis, but there is little information on their metabolism in the human colon. As the large bowel contains a diverse population of bacteria involved in normal bowel function, it is possible that melanoidins are metabolized therein. Depending on the bacteria involved, there may be disease or health implications. The aim of the present study was to use in vitro models to determine the digestibility of melanoidins and the effect of melanoidins on colonic bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract. Melanoidins were prepared and the effects of simulated upper-gut secretions on their stability determined in a model system. The effects of faecal bacteria were also determined, in batch culture, with a combination of phenotypic and genotypic (probes) criteria being used to identify the microbial diversity involved. Simulation of peptic and pancreatic digestion showed that the melanoidins did not produce detectable amounts of low-molecular-mass degradation products. However, melanoidins affected the growth of gut bacteria during mixed culture growth. The effect was to cause a non-specific increase in the anaerobic bacteria enumerated. This in vitro study indicates that melanoidins can affect the growth of human large-bowel bacteria and serves to demonstrate possible effects that may occur in vivo. Given the large and varied number of food items that contain Maillard reaction products, this may have relevance for lower-gut health.

Mammalian thioredoxin reductase: oxidation of the C-terminal cysteine/selenocysteine active site forms a thioselenide, and replacement of selenium with sulfur markedly reduces catalytic activity.Mammalian cytosolic thioredoxin reductase (TrxR) has a redox center, consisting of Cys(59)/Cys(64) adjacent to the flavin ring of FAD and another center consisting of Cys(497)/selenocysteine (SeCys)(498) near the C terminus. We now show that the C-terminal Cys(497)-SH/SeCys(498)-Se(-) of NADPH-reduced enzyme, after anaerobic dialysis, was converted to a thioselenide on incubation with excess oxidized Trx (TrxS(2)) or H(2)O(2). The Cys(59)-SH/Cys(64)-SH pair also was oxidized to a disulfide. At lower concentrations of TrxS(2), the Cys(59)-SH/Cys(64)-SH center was still converted to a disulfide, presumably by reduction of the thioselenide to Cys(497)-SH/SeCys(498)-Se(-). Specific alkylation of SeCys(498) completely blocked the TrxS(2)-induced oxidation of Cys(59)-SH/Cys(64)-SH, and the alkylated enzyme had negligible NADPH-disulfide oxidoreductase activity. The effect of replacing SeCys(498) with Cys was determined by using a mutant form of human placental TrxR1 expressed in Escherichia coli. The NADPH-disulfide oxidoreductase activity of the purified Cys(497)/Cys(498) mutant enzyme was 6% or 11% of that of wild-type rat liver TrxR1 with 5, 5'-dithiobis(2-nitrobenzoic acid) or TrxS(2), respectively, as substrate. Disulfide formation induced by excess TrxS(2) in the mutant form was 12% of that of the wild type. Thus, SeCys has a critical redox function during the catalytic cycle, which is performed poorly by Cys.

Accuracy of intramucosal pH calculated from arterial bicarbonate and the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation: assessment using simulated ischemia.To determine the accuracy of intramucosal pH (pHi) calculated using arterial bicarbonate instead of mucosal capillary bicarbonate in the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation.
Simulation of progressive ischemia in mucosal capillary blood.
University research laboratory.
Normal human blood diluted with plasma.
Three venous blood specimens were heparinized and diluted to a mean hemoglobin concentration of 5.0 (+/-0.9) g/dL by addition of plasma (2:1, vol:vol). Mucosal capillary aerobic flow stagnation was simulated by multiple exposures of each cooled specimen to a gas mixture containing 90% nitrogen and 10% CO2. When PCO2 measured at 37 degrees C (98.6 degrees F) was approximately 120 torr (16 kPa), the assigned anaerobic threshold, subsequent anaerobic flow stagnation was simulated by mixing the hypercapnic specimens in sealed syringes with five to six successive small aliquots (<100 microL) of lactic acid (10 g/L).
The relationship between Pco2 and pH in the specimens was compared with the relationship between the same PCO2 values and pHi calculated by substituting bicarbonate concentrations of 22 and 26 mmol/L in the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation. As PCO2 rose from 50 torr (8 kPa), conventionally calculated pHi increasingly underestimated simulated mucosal capillary pH, with bias >0.1 pH unit at the simulated anaerobic threshold of 120 torr (16 kPa). As PCO2 rose further the values converged, becoming equivalent at PCO2 approximately 150 torr (20 kPa). From PCO2 > or =200 torr (26.7 kPa), conventional pHi progressively overestimated simulated mucosal pH. The difference was >0.3 pH units at PCO2 = 250 torr (33.3 kPa).
In the mucosal PCO2 range usually encountered clinically, the arterial bicarbonate substitution causes underestimation of mucosal capillary pH. With moderate mucosal capillary lactic acidosis the error becomes small, and in severe regional ischemia there is significant overestimation of mucosal capillary pH.

Role of Salmonella enterotoxin in overall virulence of the organism.In this study, the Salmonella enterotoxin gene (stn) was mutated by marker exchange mutagenesis, and the overall virulence of the organism was evaluated. Salmonella marker exchange mutants evoked significantly less fluid secretion in mouse intestinal loops compared to that seen with wild-type S. typhimurium. Salmonella mutants were as invasive as wild-type bacteria for HeLa cells; however, their capacity to cause destruction of the intestinal mucosa was impaired, when compared with wild-type bacteria by electron microscopy. Upon oral challenge of mice, the LD(50)of the Salmonella mutants was greater than that for the wild-type bacteria. The fluid secretory potential, as well as a reduction in the LD(50)of these mutants was restored when the mutated stn gene was replaced by the native stn gene sequence. These mutations had no effect on the aerobic growth of these bacteria in minimal or complete medium; anaerobic growth was also not affected. With these studies, we demonstrated that the presence of an intact stn gene contributed significantly to the overall virulence of S. typhimurium in a murine model.

Metabolic pathways of flobufen-a new antirheumatic and antiarthritic drug. Interspecies comparison.Metabolic transformations of flobufen, [4-(2',4'-difluoro-biphenyl-4-y1)-4-oxo-2-methylbutanoic acid], a non-steroid antiinflammatory agent, were studied in vitro using the following biological models and species: rat and mouse liver homogenates and liver subcellular fractions (5 000 g and 100 000 g supernatant, mitochondria); rat, mouse, rabbit, guinea-pig and mini-pig liver microsomes; isolated rat hepatocytes; perfused rat liver and 5000 g rat muscle tissue supernatant. Reduced flobufen [4-(2',4'-difluorobiphenyl-4-yl)-4-hydroxy-2-methylbutanoic acid] is the major metabolite generated by the subcellular fractions (in the mild acidic extraction conditions during subsequent laboratory processing is converted to its lactone form). It was detected upon the incubation of flobufen with liver microsomes isolated from all the animals tested. Maximum yield of reduced flobufen in experiments with rat and mouse liver microsomes was found after anaerobic incubation with NADPH. This finding combined with the knowledge of subcellular distribution of enzymes suggest that metabolite formation depends on the activity of microsomal reductases and, probably, also on the activity of the important microsomal reductase, cytochrome P-450. Another flobufen metabolite, arylacetic acid [(2',4'-difluorobiphenyl-4-yl)ethanoic acid], is generated from the reduced metabolite by the cleavage of its side chain, and was detected in isolated hepatocytes - it was the only metabolite found in urine and faeces upon oral administration of the drug. All these metabolites were identified and quantified.

Early activation of hepatic NFkappaB and NF-IL6 in polymicrobial sepsis correlates with bacteremia, cytokine expression, and mortality.The role of transcription factor activation in the pathophysiology of sepsis syndrome has not been established. This study investigated the relation between tissue nuclear factor kappaB (NFkappaB) and nuclear factor interleukin 6 (NF-IL6 or C/EBP) activation and bacteremia, inflammatory cytokine expression, and mortality in a murine model of cecal ligation and puncture (CLP).
Transcription factor activation was assessed by the electrophoretic mobility shift assay. Cytokine mRNA levels were established by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and quantified by scanning densitometry. Bacteremia was evaluated by standard aerobic and anaerobic microbiologic methods.
CLP stimulated hepatic NFkappaB activation at 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, and 8 hours compared with control and sham-operated mice. Hepatic NFkappaB activation during CLP peaked at 4 hours (1114% vs. no surgery, 609% vs. sham). Hepatic NF-IL6 activation was observed at 3, 4, and 6 hours after CLP. Hepatic and splenic levels of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and IL-6 mRNA were also elevated after CLP. Bacteremia in CLP mice consisted of Bacteroides species and to a lesser extent facultative gram-negative bacilli and group D Enterococcus.
Early activation of hepatic and splenic NFkappaB and NF-IL6 positively correlates with tissue cytokine mRNA expression and mortality in a surgical model of polymicrobial sepsis. The data suggest that transcription factor activation is an early event in the pathophysiology of sepsis.

Effect of bacteriocin-producing lactobacilli on the survival of Escherichia coli and Listeria in a dynamic model of the stomach and the small intestine.The survival of Lactobacillus curvatus LTH 1174 (bac ) and (bac ) in combination with Escherichia coli LTH 1600 or Listeria innocua DSM20649 during transit through a dynamic model of the human stomach and small intestine (GIT model) was studied. Furthermore, we determined the digestion of curvacin A during gastro-intestinal transit and the effect of this bacteriocin on microbial survival. Lb. curvatus is rapidly killed in the gastric compartment at pH < 2.0, and less than 0.01% of the cells delivered to the small intestinal compartments were recovered from the ileal compartment of the model. Meat exerted a protective effect against the lethal action of bile against Lb. curvatus. The sensitivity of E. coli to acid depended on the aeration of the preculture and decreased in the order anaerobic > strongly agitated > agitated. Lactic acid and curvacin A enhanced the lethal effect of low pH on E. coli. Accordingly, cells from strongly agitated cultures were killed faster in the gastric compartment of the GIT model than those from agitated cultures, and inactivation was accelerated in the presence of curvacin A. E. coli tolerated the bile concentrations prevailing in the small intestinal compartments of the model. The survival of Listeria innocua in the GIT model was comparable to that of Lb. curvatus. The curvacin A produced by Lb. curvatus LTH1174 (bac+) killed > 90% of the L. innocua within 10 min after mixing of the cultures. Curvacin A was not degraded in the the gastric compartment, and could be detected in the ileal compartment during the first 180 min upon addition of the meal.

Anaerobic degradation of phthalate isomers by methanogenic consortia.Three methanogenic enrichment cultures, grown on ortho-phthalate, iso-phthalate, or terephthalate were obtained from digested sewage sludge or methanogenic granular sludge. Cultures grown on one of the phthalate isomers were not capable of degrading the other phthalate isomers. All three cultures had the ability to degrade benzoate. Maximum specific growth rates (microseconds max) and biomass yields (YXtotS) of the mixed cultures were determined by using both the phthalate isomers and benzoate as substrates. Comparable values for these parameters were found for all three cultures. Values for microseconds max and YXtotS were higher for growth on benzoate compared to the phthalate isomers. Based on measured and estimated values for the microbial yield of the methanogens in the mixed culture, specific yields for the phthalate and benzoate fermenting organisms were calculated. A kinetic model, involving three microbial species, was developed to predict intermediate acetate and hydrogen accumulation and the final production of methane. Values for the ratio of the concentrations of methanogenic organisms, versus the phthalate isomer and benzoate fermenting organisms, and apparent half-saturation constants (KS) for the methanogens were calculated. By using this combination of measured and estimated parameter values, a reasonable description of intermediate accumulation and methane formation was obtained, with the initial concentration of phthalate fermenting organisms being the only variable. The energetic efficiency for growth of the fermenting organisms on the phthalate isomers was calculated to be significantly smaller than for growth on benzoate.

Enhanced oxygen delivery reverses anaerobic metabolic states in prolonged sandwich rat hepatocyte culture.It must be assumed that current petri dish primary hepatocyte culture models do not supply sufficient amounts of oxygen and thus cause anaerobic metabolism of the cells. This is contrary to the physiologic state of the cells. In vivo the liver is a highly vascularized organ with a rather high blood flow rate of a mixture of arterial and venous blood. The aim of the present study was to show the oxygen dependence of primary rat hepatocytes in long-term culture and to define appropriate conditions that could allow hepatocytes to maintain tissue specific functions in an aerobic environment. To this purpose matrix overlaid hepatocytes were either cultured on gas-permeable (fluorinated hydrocarbon films) or gas-impermeable (polystyrene) supports at 10% and 20% ambient oxygen concentration (v/v), respectively. Tissue-specific functions were assessed by studying albumin and urea secretion as well as xenobiotic metabolism. The mRNA expression and catalytic activities of the cytoprotective antioxidant enzymes mitochondrial manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), cytosolic copper and zinc superoxide dismutase, peroxisomal catalase, and cytosolic glutathione peroxidase were investigated to assess intracellular responses to the defined variations in oxygen supply. Hepatocytes could successfully be maintained at aerobic conditions in long-term culture on gas-permeable PTFE films. At 50% (10%, v/v) of currently used oxygen levels lactate accumulation was prevented, a plateau-like albumin secretion reestablished, urea secretion improved, and xenobiotic metabolism proceeded at physiological rates. mRNA expression of cytoprotective enzymes responded to the pericellular availability of oxygen and was most pronounced in the case of MnSOD. However, the biggest stress factor for the hepatocytes still appeared to be the isolation procedure, as mRNA expression and catalytic activities were most elevated shortly thereafter. In conclusion, this study clearly shows the oxygen dependence of primary rat hepatocytes in long-term culture and indicates means to establish appropriate conditions for the aerobic culture of primary rat sandwich hepatocytes with full maintenance of function. The long-term culture of hepatocytes on oxygenating supports at in vivo-like oxygen tensions therefore appears to be more physiologic and beneficial for the cells.

Autism and Clostridium tetani.Autism is a severe developmental disability believed to have multiple etiologies. This paper outlines the possibility of a subacute, chronic tetanus infection of the intestinal tract as the underlying cause for symptoms of autism observed in some individuals. A significant percentage of individuals with autism have a history of extensive antibiotic use. Oral antibiotics significantly disrupt protective intestinal microbiota, creating a favorable environment for colonization by opportunistic pathogens. Clostridium tetani is an ubiquitous anaerobic bacillus that produces a potent neurotoxin. Intestinal colonization by C. tetani, and subsequent neurotoxin release, have been demonstrated in laboratory animals which were fed vegetative cells. The vagus nerve is capable of transporting tetanus neurotoxin (TeNT) and provides a route of ascent from the intestinal tract to the CNS. This route bypasses TeNT's normal preferential binding sites in the spinal cord, and therefore the symptoms of a typical tetanus infection are not evident. Once in the brain, TeNT disrupts the release of neurotransmitters by the proteolytic cleavage of synaptobrevin, a synaptic vesicle membrane protein. This inhibition of neurotransmitter release would explain a wide variety of behavioral deficits apparent in autism. Lab animals injected in the brain with TeNT have exhibited many of these behaviors. Some children with autism have also shown a significant reduction in stereotyped behaviors when treated with antimicrobials effective against intestinal clostridia. When viewed as sequelae to a subacute, chronic tetanus infection, many of the puzzling abnormalities of autism have a logical basis. A review of atypical tetanus cases, and strategies to test the validity of this paper's hypothesis, are included.

Ecological and physiological studies on large intestinal bacteria in relation to production of hydrolytic and reductive enzymes involved in formation of genotoxic metabolites.Several hydrolytic and reductive bacterial enzymes (beta-glucuronidase, GN; beta-glucosidase, GS; arylsulphatase, AS; azoreductase, AR; nitroreductase, NR) involved in production of mutagenic or genotoxic metabolites were measured in human colonic contents. Cell-associated AS and extracellular GS were approximately twice as high in the distal colon compared with the proximal bowel, while AR changed little throughout the gut. Measurements of these enzymes in faeces from seven healthy donors confirmed that the majority were cell-associated, and demonstrated high levels of inter-individual variability. NR decreased four-fold between the proximal and distal colon while extracellular GN was reduced by 50%. Most probable number (MPN) analysis on faeces obtained from six healthy donors showed that counts of intestinal bacteria producing GS and AR were c. 10(10) and 10(11)/g, respectively, in all samples tested. Numbers of GN- and AS-forming organisms were between two and three orders of magnitude lower. Inter-individual carriage rates of bacterial populations synthesising NR were highly variable. Screening of 20 pure cultures of intestinal bacteria, belonging to six different genera, showed that Bacteroides ovatus, in particular, synthesised large amounts of GS, whereas B. fragilis, B. vulgatus and Bifidobacterium pseudolongum formed the highest cell-associated levels of GN. In general, bifidobacteria and Lactobacillus acidophilus did not produce significant amounts of AR. All five clostridia studied (Clostridium bifermentans, C. septicum, C. perfringens, C. sporogenes and C. butyricum) produced NR and AR, as did the bacteroides (B. fragilis, B. ovatus and B. vulgatus). Escherichia coli and C. perfringens formed large amounts of NR. Levels of AS production were invariably low and few of the organisms screened synthesised this enzyme. In-vitro studies investigating the effect of intestinal transit time on enzyme production, in a three-stage (V1-V3) continuous culture model of the colon operated at system retention times (R) of either 31.1 or 68.4 h, showed that specific activities of GS were up to four-fold higher (V3) at R = 31.1 h. Bacteriological analysis demonstrated that representative populations of colonic micro-organisms were maintained in the fermentation system, and indicated that changes in GS activity were not related to numbers of the predominant anaerobic or facultative anaerobic species within the model, but were explainable on the basis of substrate-induced modulation of bacterial metabolism.

Topological analysis of the aerobic membrane-bound formate dehydrogenase of Escherichia coli.Besides formate dehydrogenase N (FDH-N), which is involved in the major anaerobic respiratory pathway in the presence of nitrate, Escherichia coli synthesizes a second isoenzyme, called FDH-O, whose physiological role is to ensure rapid adaptation during a shift from aerobiosis to anaerobiosis. FDH-O is a membrane-bound enzyme complex composed of three subunits, alpha (FdoG), beta (FdoH), and gamma (FdoI), which exhibit high sequence similarity to the equivalent polypeptides of FDH-N. The topology of these three subunits has been studied by using blaM (beta-lactamase) gene fusions. A collection of 47 different randomly generated Fdo-BlaM fusions, 4 site-specific fusions, and 3 sandwich fusions were isolated along the entire sequence of the three subunits. In contrast to previously reported predictions from sequence analysis, our data suggested that the alphabeta catalytic dimer is located in the cytoplasm, with a C-terminal anchor for beta protruding into the periplasm. As expected, the gamma subunit, which specifies cytochrome b, was shown to cross the cytoplasmic membrane four times, with the N and C termini exposed to the cytoplasm. Protease digestion studies of the 35S-labelled FDH-O heterotrimer in spheroplasts add further support to this model. Consistently, prior studies regarding the bioenergetic function of formate dehydrogenase provided evidence for a mechanism in which formate is oxidized in the cytoplasm.

Role of Fusobacterium nucleatum and coaggregation in anaerobe survival in planktonic and biofilm oral microbial communities during aeration.Coaggregation is a well-characterized phenomenon by which specific pairs of oral bacteria interact physically. The aim of this study was to examine the patterns of coaggregation between obligately anaerobic and oxygen-tolerant species that coexist in a model oral microbial community. Obligate anaerobes other than Fusobacterium nucleatum coaggregated only poorly with oxygen-tolerant species. In contrast, F. nucleatum was able to coaggregate not only with both oxygen-tolerant and other obligately anaerobic species but also with otherwise-noncoaggregating obligate anaerobe-oxygen-tolerant species pairs. The effects of the presence or absence of F. nucleatum on anaerobe survival in both the biofilm and planktonic phases of a complex community of oral bacteria grown in an aerated (gas phase, 200 ml of 5% CO2 in air x min-1) chemostat system were then investigated. In the presence of F. nucleatum, anaerobes persisted in high numbers (>10(7) x ml-1 in the planktonic phase and >10(7) x cm-2 in 4-day biofilms). In an equivalent culture in the absence of F. nucleatum, the numbers of black-pigmented anaerobes (Porphyromonas gingivalis and Prevotella nigrescens) were significantly reduced (P </= 0.001) in both the planktonic phase and in 4-day biofilms, while the numbers of facultatively anaerobic bacteria increased in these communities. Coaggregation-mediated interactions between F. nucleatum and other species facilitated the survival of obligate anaerobes in aerated environments.

The in vitro metabolism of penclomedine in mouse, rat, and human systems.Penclomedine is a multi-chlorinated alpha-picoline derivative that has demonstrated activity in several murine breast cancer models and is currently in clinical testing for use against solid tumors. This study evaluates the metabolism of penclomedine in several in vitro hepatic models, including microsomes, fresh liver slices, and the isolated perfused rat liver (IPRL). Both human and mouse liver slices as well as human and mouse liver microsomes under aerobic conditions resulted in limited metabolism of penclomedine to several oxidized metabolites, including penclomic acid, 4-demethylpenclomic acid, and 4-demethylpenclomedine. Microsomes under anaerobic conditions vigorously produced mainly reduced metabolites, primarily penclomedine dimers. This is in contrast to in vivo data, which showed rapid metabolism of penclomedine to primarily 4-demethylpenclomedine. The IPRL preparation, however, metabolized 50 microM penclomedine 90% within 90 min, producing primarily 4-demethylpenclomedine and penclomic acid. These were formed in roughly equimolar amounts and did not undergo significant further metabolism over 4 hr. Numerous highly polar biliary metabolites were also found. The IPRL preparation thus seems to most accurately reflect the in vivo situation.

An in-vitro test for assessing the viability of Ascaris suum eggs exposed to various sewage treatment processes.A simple procedure using Ascaris suum as a model for Ascaris lumbricoides in testing the ability of sludge treatment processes to kill the eggs of parasitic roundworms was developed. Unembryonated and embryonated A. suum eggs were placed in a mesophilic anaerobic sludge digester or a sludge lagoon, or stored at 4 degrees C. Unembryonated eggs were recovered and incubated at 32.5 degree C and 90-95% r.h. for 48 h and viable eggs developed embryos consisting of two or more clearly defined cells. This viability was confirmed by further incubation for 30 days, when motile first-stage larvae were seen. Infectivity was demonstrated by administering larvated eggs to worm-fee pigs and recovering adult worms from the small intestine at necropsy. After 1 week in a mesophilic anaerobic digester, 95% of A. suum eggs produced two-cell larvae into vitro, with 86% progressing to motile larvae. After 5 weeks in the digester 51% progressed to motile larvae. Between 42% and 49% of eggs stored in a sludge lagoon for 29 weeks were viable and able to develop motile larvae. In the case of eggs that were embryonated before treatment, > 98% survived up to 5 weeks in the digester and were able to develop motile larvae. More than 90% of embryonated eggs survived for 29 weeks in the sludge lagoon and were able to develop motile larvae.

A simplified model of hypoxic injury in primary cultured rat hepatocytes.The Anaeropack system for cell culture, which was originally designed for the growth of anaerobic bacteria, was used to produce a hypoxic atmosphere for cultured hepatocytes. We measured changes in the oxygen and carbon dioxide concentrations and the atmospheric temperature in an airtight jar. We also measured changes in the pH of the medium during hypoxia to assess the accuracy of this system. Moreover, we used three durations (2, 3, and 4 h) of hypoxia and 8 h of reoxygenation in cultured rat hepatocytes, and then measured the lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), ketone body concentration (acetoacetate + beta-hydroxybutyrate), and the ketone body ratio (KBR: acetoacetate/beta-hydroxybutyrate) in the medium in order to assess the suitability of this system as a model for reperfusion following liver ischemia. The oxygen concentration dropped to 1% or less within 1 h. The concentration of carbon dioxide rose to about 5% at 30 min after the induction of the hypoxic conditions, and was maintained at this level for 5 h. No effect of the reaction heat produced by the oxygen absorbent in the jar was recognized. The extent of cell injury produced by changing the hypoxic parameters was satisfactorily reflected by the KBR, the ketone body concentration, and the LDH activity released into the medium. Because this model can duplicate the conditions of the hepatocytes during revascularization following ischemic liver, and the Anaeropack system for cell culture is easy to manipulate, it seems suitable for the experimental study of hypoxic injury and revascularization in vitro.

Inactivation and destruction of conserved Trp159 of Fe-superoxide dismutase from Porphyromonas gingivalis by hydrogen peroxide.The superoxide dismutase (SOD) of Porphyromonas gingivalis, an obligate anaerobe, was purified from Escherichia coli (sodA sodB mutant) harboring the P. gingivalis SOD-encoding gene. The purified protein contained both iron and a small amount of manganese. Iron- and manganese-reconstituted SOD, which contained one of these metals exclusively, showed specific activities of 1000 and 1200 U/mg/mol of metals/subunit, respectively. These values were similar to the specific activity of the native enzyme purified from the recombinant E. coli strain. The Fe-reconstituted enzyme was inactivated by 10 mM hydrogen peroxide to about 5% of its original activity after a 15 min incubation at 25 degrees C at pH 7.8, whereas the Mn-reconstituted enzyme showed no inactivation after 80 min. A concomitant increase in absorbance at 320 nm was observed with inactivation of the Fe-reconstituted enzyme. Amino acid analysis of the inactivated Fe-reconstituted enzyme showed a decrease of about 0.7 residues of tryptophan/subunit, a value similar to the iron content of the iron-reconstituted enzyme. Three major peptides of the digests of the purified SOD with lysylendopeptidase were separated by a reverse-phase HPLC monitoring at 280 nm. One of the peptides, corresponding to the residues from Gly149 to Lys176, decreased in the HPLC eluent of the H2O2-inactivated SOD to 20% of the amount measured for native SOD. Since this peptide contains only one tryptophan residue, it was concluded that the decomposed tryptophan residue is Trp159, which is located midway between the third and fourth metal ligands, Asp157 and His161, and is conserved in aligned amino acid sequences of all known Fe-SODs and Mn-SODs. Based on these results, we propose that the differences in hydrogen peroxide sensitivities observed for the Fe-SODs and Mn-SODs may be caused by the difference in the identity of the active site metal in the Fe-SODs and Mn-SODs and a tuning of the properties of the iron center in the Fe-SODs.

Relationship between systemic oxygen supply dependency and gastric intramucosal PCO2 during progressive hemorrhage.As systemic oxygen delivery (DO2) is reduced, oxygen consumption (VO2) is maintained until a critical level is reached (DO2crit) below which VO2 becomes supply-dependent and anaerobic metabolism ensues. We examined the relationship between gastric intramucosal PCO2 (PiCO2) and the onset of systemic supply dependency. We also compared PiCO2 to mixed venous and portal venous blood PCO2 (PmvCO2 and PpvCO2) to assess their utility as premonitory indicators of supply dependency.
Six dogs were subjected to stepwise hemorrhage to effect a progressive decrease in DO2. Inflection points for changes in VO2, PiCO2, PmvCO2, and PpvCO2 versus DO2 were determined.
Mean DO2crit was 6.0 +/- 0.7 mL x kg(-1) x min(-1), whereas the DO2 at which inflection points occurred for PiCO2 and PpvCO2 were 13.2 +/- 1.4 and 11.2 +/- 1.5 mL x kg(-1) x min(-1), respectively (p < 0.05 for both).
Continuous monitoring of PiCO2 using capnometric recirculating gas tonometry can serve as an early indicator of systemic hypoperfusion before the onset of systemic supply dependency.

Investigation of a primary requirement of organ preservation solutions: supplemental buffering agents improve hepatic energy production during cold storage.This study was designed to investigate the effects of a modified University of Wisconsin (UW) solution supplemented with one of four buffering agents (histidine, bicine [N,N-bis(2-hydroxyethyl)glycine], tricine [N-tris(hydroxymethyl)methylglycine], and Tris) on liver metabolism during cold ischemic storage.
Rat livers were flushed and stored for a maximum period of 24 hr at 4 degrees C, and tissue energetics, substrate, and anaerobic end-products were assessed; the group exhibiting the best results during storage was recovered in a 60-min period of warm reperfusion. Relative buffering capacities of the experimental solutions (measured over physiological pH range, in mM H+/L) were: UW, 4.1; histidine+UW, 9.8; Tris+UW, 19.0; bicine+UW, 22.5; tricine+UW, 26.8.
In the UW group, ATP levels dropped rapidly over the first 4 hr; 1.0 micromol/g (40% of initial) remained after 4 hr of storage. By 2 hr, ATP levels in bicine- and tricine-treated groups were 0.5 and 1.1 micromol/g greater than in the UW-stored livers and by 10 hr, ATP in bicine-treated livers was twofold that of the control (UW) group. Total adenylate levels also reflected a superior elevation of cellular energetics; even after 24 hr, quantities were 1.4 and 2.0 micromol/g higher than the UW group in bicine- and histidine-supplemented organs. The increase in energetics occurred as a result of increased flux through the major anaerobic energy-producing pathway, glycolysis. The glycolytic rate was significantly greater at storage times > 10 hr with solutions supplemented with bicine, histidine, and tricine. Final values for net lactate accumulation over the entire 24-hr storage period were: UW, 10.1 micromol/g; histidine, 14.3 micromol/g; bicine, 15.2 micromol/g; tricine, 13.8 micromol/g. Activities of glycogen phosphorylase revealed that the activity of this enzyme dropped by 50% within 2 hr of storage in UW. However, histidine and bicine supplementation resulted in a substantial elevation of phosphorylase "a" over 4 hr and 10 hr, respectively. The best buffer of the four examined in this study was bicine; energetics, glycolytic flux, and patterns of adenylate regeneration upon reperfusion were markedly superior to modified UW solution.
The results of this study suggest that supplementing the "gold standard" UW solution with an additional buffering agent (in order of efficacy: bicine>tricine>histidine) may improve the metabolic status of livers during clinical organ retrieval/storage.

The effect of low temperature (5-29 degrees C) and adaptation on the methanogenic activity of biomass.The influence of low temperature (5-29 degrees C) on the methanogenic activity of non-adapted digested sewage sludge and on temperature/leachate-adapted biomass was assayed by using municipal landfill leachate, intermediates of anaerobic degradation (propionate) and methane precursors (acetate, H2/CO2) as substrates. The temperature dependence of methanogenic activity could be described by Arrhenius-derived models. However, both substrate and adaptation affected the temperature dependence. The adaptation of biomass in a leachate-fed upflow anaerobic sludge-blanket reactor at approximately 20 degrees C for 4 months resulted in a sevenfold and fivefold increase of methanogenic activity at 11 degrees C and 22 degrees C respectively. Both acetate and H2/CO2 were methanized even at 5 degrees C. At 22 degrees C, methanogenic activities (acetate 4.8-84 mM) were 1.6-5.2 times higher than those at 11 degrees C. The half-velocity constant (Ks) of acetate utilization at 11 degrees C was one-third of that at 22 degrees C while a similar Ki was obtained at both temperatures. With propionate (1.1-5.5 mM) as substrate, methanogenic activities at 11 degrees C were half those at 22 degrees C. Furthermore, the residual concentration of the substrates was not dependent on temperature. The results suggest that the adaptation of biomass enables the achievement of a high treatment capacity in the anaerobic process even under psychrophilic conditions.

Gut bacterial translocation during total parenteral nutrition in experimental rats and its countermeasure.The use of total parenteral nutrition (TPN) is commonly associated with mucosal lining of the intestinal tract, causing degenerative changes within the gut-associated lymphoid tissue (GALT). These phenomena are probably caused by the translocation of indigenous intestinal bacteria into other organs and tissues where they induce infections.
Using TPN model rats, this paper looks at the result of the investigation of the action of PSK (proteoglycan), a biological response modifier, which appears to suppress bacterial translocation and maintain local immunity activity.
Culture of mesenteric lymph nodes obtained post-TPN demonstrate a bacterial rate as high as 60%. Immunohistochemical examination indicates a reduction in the number of plasma cells and a decrease in S-IgA production and secretion. A similar reduction in S-IgA within bile and portal venous blood was also confirmed. Continuous oral administration of PSK in a daily dose of 1,000 mg/kg had a protective effect against the degeneration of GALT. A staining in immunocytes of Peyer's patches using immunohistochemical study was performed after administration of PSK and revealed constant levels of MHC-I, MHC-II, T helper cells, and interleukin-2 producing cells, supporting the protective role of PSK against degeneration of GALT with a subsequent reduction in bacterial translocation.
Proteoglycan can restore the impaired local immunity in the intestinal tract to normal levels and suppression of the bacterial translocation to provide an important function for patients receiving TPN treatment.

Nitrate-reducing bacteria in diversion colitis: a clue to inflammation?A pathogenic role of nitric oxide has been suggested in acute and chronic intestinal inflammation. We took the opportunity offered by studies in patients with excluded colon, which represents a model of chronic intestinal inflammation with no exogenous nitrite or nitrate supply, to evaluate the quantity and the quality of nitrate reducers in diversion colitis. Thirty patients (17 men, 13 women, mean age 45 years) having an excluded colon for various reasons were sampled by rectal swabs and compared to 30 healthy controls (11 men, 19 women, mean age 28 years). The percentage of nitrate-reducers among the total count of subcultured bacteria was 46 +/- 41% (mean +/- SD) in patients with diversion colitis as compared to 19 +/- 24% in healthy controls. This difference was significant (P < 0.05) despite great heterogeneity in individual values. In patients with diversion colitis, 75/254 (29.5%) different isolated bacterial strains were nitrate-reducers as compared to 61/294 (21%) (P < 0.05) in controls. Among the 75 nitrate-reducing strains isolated from patients with diversion colitis, 55 were aerobes. Pseudomonas species were only encountered in this population. The predominant group was enterobacteria with a high isolation rate of species belonging to the genera Proteus, Providencia, and Morganella. In healthy controls nitrate-reducing anaerobes were nearly as frequent as aerobes. The most frequent species was Eubacterium lentum, followed by Clostridium perfringens. It could be suggested that nitric oxide synthase might produce a bacterial substrate increasing the growth of bacteria with a high pathogenic potential, creating conditions for chronic inflammation and infection in patients with excluded colon.

Selective bowel decontamination of recipients for prevention against liver injury following orthotopic liver transplantation: evaluation with rat models.Gut-derived substances can activate Kupffer cells to provoke hepatic necrosis after partial hepatectomy in rats. A similar situation may occur during orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT), as congestion in the intestinal wall, caused by portal vein occlusion, is inevitable during the operation. The contribution of such substances to liver injury following OLT was investigated in rats. Oral administration of polymyxin B sulfate for 7 days significantly altered intestinal bacterial flora in rats; Enterobacteriaceae diminished and anaerobes such as Bifidobacterium , Lactobacillus, Bacteroides, and Eubacterium increased in number, compared with the control rats. Also, this treatment significantly reduced endotoxin concentration in the portal blood 30 minutes after blood reflow following portal vein occlusion. When OLT was performed in rats using the liver preserved in cold University of Wisconsin solution for 18 hours, tissue factor activity in Kupffer cells (KC) isolated from the transplanted liver 1 hour after the operation was significantly higher than in that of normal rats. This increase was significantly reduced by pretreatment of the recipients with polymyxin B sulfate. In these recipients, serum alanine aminotransferase activity, tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) concentration, and histological extent of liver necrosis were significantly attenuated at 24 hours after the operation compared with those of control rats. We conclude that the substances derived from bacilli sensitive to polymyxin B sulfate in the gut may be a contributing factor to liver injury following OLT in rats; we feel that this probably occurs by entering of the substances into the portal blood during the ahepatic phase of the operation to activate KC. Selective bowel decontamination of recipients with polymyxin B sulfate would be a candidate for protection against early graft failure following OLT.

Esophageal pressure measurements in cardiopulmonary exercise testing.We sought to determine the adaptability and effectiveness of a new esophageal balloon technique to measure changes in esophageal pressure (Pes) as a reflection of pleural pressure with progressive incremental exercise testing in normal subjects.
An 8F (0.9 cm) esophageal balloon catheter (Smart Cath; Allied Health Products; Riverside, Calif), a CP-100 pulmonary monitor (BiCore Monitoring Systems PC-100; Irvine, Calif), and a flow transducer (Var flex; Allied Health Products; Riverside, Calif) were connected to a breathing valve (model 2700; Hans-Rudolph Inc; Kansas City, Mo). This apparatus was then used to measure Pes during a graded cardiopulmonary exercise test (CPX) to symptom limitation.
University-affiliated Veterans Affairs Hospital.
Eight nonsmoking volunteers with normal results of pulmonary function tests.
Plots of deltaPes against pressure time product (PTP), minute ventilation (VE), and oxygen consumption (VO2) were obtained. Pes at baseline, anaerobic threshold (AT), and maximum oxygen consumption (VO2max) were obtained by comparing the Pes measurements from the computer printout to the corresponding breath-by-breath measurements on the CPX.
The flow transducer (Varflex) connection added only 20 mL of dead space to the standard mouthpiece apparatus. The mean maximum work performance was 203+/-32 W. The mean VO2max was 29+/-9 mL/kg/min. The Pes at AT was 16+/-3 cm H2O. The Pes at maximal exercise was 42+/-16 cm H2O.
The small esophageal balloon was well tolerated by all subjects. Plots of deltaPes vs PTP, VE, and VO2 demonstrated a linear correlation. This apparatus could be added to the standard CPX to assess the contribution of the diaphragm and respiratory muscles in patients with dyspnea.

Oxygen sensing and signal transduction in metabolic defense against hypoxia: lessons from vertebrate facultative anaerobes.Earlier studies identified two main defense strategies against hypoxia in hypoxia tolerant animals: (1) reduction in energy turnover, and (2) improved energetic efficiency of those metabolic processes that remain. We used two model systems from the highly anoxia-tolerant aquatic turtle: (1) tissue slices of brain cortex (to probe cell level electrophysiological responses to oxygen limitation), and (2) isolated liver hepatocytes (to probe signalling and defense). In the latter, a cascade of processes underpinning hypoxia defense begins with an oxygen sensor that is probably a heme protein and a signal transduction pathway that leads to the specific activation of some genes (increased expression of several proteins) and to specific down-regulation of other genes (decreased expression of several other proteins). The pathway seems to have characteristics in common with oxygen-regulated control elements in other cells. The probable roles of the oxygen sensing and signal transduction system include coordinate down-regulation of energy demand and energy supply pathways in metabolism. Because of this coordination, hypoxia tolerant cells stay in energy balance even as they down-regulate to extremely low levels of ATP turnover. The main ATP-demanding processes in normoxia (protein synthesis, protein degradation, glucose synthesis, urea synthesis and maintenance of electrochemical gradients) are all turned down to variable degrees during anoxia or extreme hypoxia. Most striking is the observation that ion pumping is the main energy sink in anoxia-despite reductions in cell membrane permeability ("channel arrest"). Neurons also show a much lower permeability than do homologous mammalian cells but, in this case under acute anoxia, there is no further change in cell membrane conductivity. We consider that, through this recent work, it is becoming evident how normoxic maintenance ATP turnover rates can be down-regulated by an order of magnitude or more-to a new hypometabolic steady state that is prerequisite for surviving prolonged hypoxia or anoxia. The implications of these developments extend to many facets of biology and medicine.

In vitro lactose fermentation by human colonic bacteria is modified by Lactobacillus acidophilus supplementation.Adaptation of the colonic flora to lactose may contribute to lactose digestion in lactose maldigesters, and supplementation with Lactobacillus acidophilus may modify colonic fermentation of lactose and short-chain fatty acid production. We evaluated the capability of colonic bacteria to ferment lactose and the ability of L. acidophilus to modify lactose fermentation by the colonic microflora in vitro. An anaerobic continuous culture was established and inoculated with fresh samples of human feces. Lactose infusion was maintained at 25 g/d and pH at 6.7. L. acidophilus strain LA-1 (1.5 x 10(10) cells) was introduced into the fermenter on d 0 or added daily on d 0 through 4. The control was the continuous culture without the addition of lactobacilli. Rapid adaptation of colonic bacteria to lactose occurred within 1-2 d, with a significant decrease in lactose concentration and increase in beta-galactosidase activity, and lactose concentrations fell below 3 mmol/L by d 7. Supplementation with strain LA-1 resulted in a significantly greater decrease in lactose concentration and greater increase in acetate and propionate production within the first day compared with the control group. However, there was no significant difference between the fermentation treated with L. acidophilus daily and the control after the first day. These data suggest that the colonic bacteria adapt quickly to lactose, causing efficient utilization of lactose. L. acidophilus supplementation may enhance lactose fermentation during early periods when the adaptation is not established in this model.

Metabolic fate of glucose in purified islet cells. Glucose-regulated anaplerosis in beta cells.Previous studies in rat islets have suggested that anaplerosis plays an important role in the regulation of pancreatic beta cell function and growth. However, the relative contribution of islet beta cells versus non-beta cells to glucose-regulated anaplerosis is not known. Furthermore, the fate of glucose carbon entering the Krebs cycle of islet cells remains to be determined. The present study has examined the anaplerosis of glucose carbon in purified rat beta cells using specific 14C-labeled glucose tracers. Between 5 and 20 mM glucose, the oxidative production of CO2 from [3,4-14C]glucose represented close to 100% of the total glucose utilization by the cells. Anaplerosis, quantified as the difference between 14CO2 production from [3,4-14C]glucose and [6-14C]glucose, was strongly influenced by glucose, particularly between 5 and 10 mM. The dose dependence of glucose-induced insulin secretion correlated with the accumulation of citrate and malate in beta(INS-1) cells. All glucose carbon that was not oxidized to CO2 was recovered from the cells after extraction in trichloroacetic acid. This indirectly indicates that lactate output is minimal in beta cells. From the effect of cycloheximide upon the incorporation of 14C-glucose into the acid-precipitable fraction, it could be calculated that 25% of glucose carbon entering the Krebs cycle via anaplerosis is channeled into protein synthesis. In contrast, non-beta cells (approximately 80% glucagon-producing alpha cells) exhibited rates of glucose oxidation that were (1)/(3) to (1)/(6) those of the total glucose utilization and no detectable anaplerosis from glucose carbon. This difference between the two cell types was associated with a 7-fold higher expression of the anaplerotic enzyme pyruvate carboxylase in beta cells, as well as a 4-fold lower ratio of lactate dehydrogenase to FAD-linked glycerol phosphate dehydrogenase in beta cells versus alpha cells. Finally, glucose caused a dose-dependent suppression of the activity of the pentose phosphate pathway in beta cells. In conclusion, rat beta cells metabolize glucose essentially via aerobic glycolysis, whereas glycolysis in alpha cells is largely anaerobic. The results support the view that anaplerosis is an essential pathway implicated in beta cell activation by glucose.

Role of bacterial Mn-cofactored superoxide dismutase in oxidative stress responses, nasopharyngeal colonization, and sustained bacteremia caused by Haemophilus influenzae type b.Haemophilus influenzae type b, a causative agent of bacterial sepsis and meningitis in young children, contains a single superoxide dismutase (SOD), a cytoplasmic MnSOD. To study the role of this enzyme, a chromosomal sodA::lacZ mutant (M-2) was constructed. M-2 had an increased sensitivity towards oxygen and the redox-active agent paraquat. A 3.4-fold increase in sodA-lacZ expression was found in M-2 grown with oxygen supply rates between 3 and 36 mmol of O2/liter/h. In similar experiments with the wild type, assaying SodA activity, a 3.1-fold increase was found. Both the wild type and M-2 grew best at the lowest oxygen supply rate tested, consistent with the notion that H. influenzae prefers a more anaerobic environment. In the infant rat model of infection, the ability of M-2 to colonize the nasopharynx was found to be impaired, but its ability to cause invasive disease was unaffected. This suggests that after invasion, the growth disadvantage imposed by a SodA- phenotype is not limiting.

Effect of fibre on bile acid metabolism by human faecal bacteria in batch and continuous culture.The effect of various fibres on bile acid metabolism by human faecal bacteria was studied in batch and continuous culture models of the large intestine. The metabolism of the primary bile acids--chenodeoxycholic and cholic-was entirely oxidative in aerobic conditions, and the major metabolites were the 7-oxo-derivatives of the parent bile acids. Addition of both undigested and digested wheat bran and pea fibre to aerobic batch cultures reduced metabolism in a dose-dependent manner with undigested fibre being far more effective. In anaerobic conditions, the metabolism of primary bile acids was predominantly reductive: the major metabolites were the 7 alpha-dehydroxylated products of the parent bile acids--namely lithocholic acid (from chenodeoxycholic acid) and deoxycholic acid (from cholic acid), respectively. Addition of undigested crude fibre to batch cultures reduced 7 alpha-dehydroxylation in a dose-dependent manner; addition of digested crude fibre to anaerobic continuous cultures had no significant effect on bile acid metabolism. The soluble fibre lactulose needed to be added to reduce pH sufficiently (> or = 5.5), to prevent 7 alpha-dehydroxylation of primary bile acids. Reduction of 7 alpha-dehydroxylation was also associated with a substantial decrease in Bacteroides spp and a concomitant increase in Lactobacillus spp in the cultures. The failure of digested wheat bran to reduce bile acid metabolism in continuous culture is attributed mainly to the physical constraints of the systems which can handle no more than 4-6% particulate material due to blockage. It is concluded that anaerobic continuous culture systems with human faecal bacteria have some value as models of the human large intestinal environment, but further modifications are required before the effect of particulate fibres on the metabolism of bile acids can be fully addressed.

Ischemia/reperfusion injury in the rat colon.This study investigated metabolic and biochemical consequences of colonic ischemia/reperfusion (I/R) in the rat and evaluated whether antioxidants prevent I/R-induced functional damage in the rat colon. The surgical preparation involved a 10 cm segment of the colon and occlusion of the superior mesenteric artery (SMA) to induce I/R. Arterial blood from the aorta and venous blood from the superior mesenteric vein (SMV) was collected to measure blood gases, lactic acid (LA) and arachidonic acid (AA) metabolites. Tissue xanthine oxidase (XO) and thiobarbituric acid (TBA) derivatives were measured before and after reperfusion. In addition, vascular and mucosal permeability, and the effect of MDL 73404 (a water soluble vitamin E analog) and 5-aminosalicylic acid on LA, AA, XO and TBA was measured. After ischemia, the colon displayed a metabolic shift from aerobic to anaerobic course by increasing lactic acid production in the colon (183% increase in SMV lactate level compared 87% in the SMA; p < 0.03). After 10 minutes of reperfusion, circulating 6-keto-prostaglandin F1 alpha increased by 3.85 fold (p < 0.001) and thromboxane B2 increased by 2 to 3 fold. An Ischemia time longer than 60 minutes was required to cause changes in tissue XO levels. Tissue TBA levels showed a good dose response corresponding with I/R time. I/R (60 minutes) caused a three and 16 fold increase (p < 0.01) in vascular and mucosal permeability, respectively. MDL 73404 and 5-aminosalicylic acid significantly inhibited the vascular permeability and decreased LA, AA, XO and TBA. These observations provide the first direct experimental evidence for I/R-induced damage in the colon and some of its effects can be reversed by conventional and novel antioxidants.

Enhanced levels of biochemical markers for cobalamin deficiency in totally gastrectomized rats: uncoupling of the enhancement from the severity of spongy vacuolation in spinal cord.The totally gastrectomized (TGX) rat is a new experimental model for studying the pathogenesis of cobalamin (Cbl)-deficient myelopathy, i.e., subacute combined degeneration, total gastrectomy (TG) serving as a surgical paradigm of human pernicious anemia. We determined the serum levels of some biochemical indicators of Cbl deficiency in TGX rats at 2 to 10 months after TG. Methylmalonic acid (MMA) rose within 2 months and progressively increased thereafter until the end of the investigation period. 2-Methylcitric acid (MCA) rose significantly by 6 months and showed a further increment 4 months later. Homocysteine was only clearly elevated much later than the serum MMA, i.e., 10 months after the operation. The concentrations of MMA, MCA, and cystathionine were increased in kidney, liver, and spinal cord (SC) of TGX rats at 10 months. Chronic treatment of TGX rats with Cbl greatly decreased the serum levels of all the metabolic indicators of Cbl deficiency. Chronic peroral administration of the antibiotic lincomycin to TGX rats in an attempt to suppress the enteric flora markedly decreased serum MMA levels. Only Cbl, however, given either for the first 2 months after TG or for the third and fourth postoperative months (i.e., after SC abnormalities had already appeared) significantly decreased the severity of spongy vacuolation in SC white matter, although not completely preventing or repairing the neuropathological damage. Therefore, neither the early impairment in TGX rats of the Cbl-dependent methylmalonyl-coenzyme A mutase reaction nor the more delayed impairment of the Cbl-dependent methionine synthase step, as reflected by changes in serum metabolite levels, seems to be causally related to the TG-induced spongy vacuolation in SC white matter.

Health benefits of non-digestible oligosaccharides.Non-digestible oligosaccharides are complex carbohydrates of the non-a-glucan type which, because of the configuration of their osidic bonds, resist hydrolysis by salivary and intestinal digestive enzymes. In the colon they are fermented by anaerobic bacteria. Among the non-digestible oligosaccharides, the chicory fructooligosaccharides occupy a key position and, in most european countries, they are recognised as natural food ingredients. The other major products are the short chain fructooligosaccharides and galactooligosaccharides obtained by enzymatic synthesis using sucrose and lactose as substrates respectively, the soybean oligosaccharides, the xylooligosaccharides produced by partial hydrolysis of xylans and polydextrose or pyrodextrins prepared by a chemical treatment of carbohydrates. The most well known effect of most non-digestible oligosaccharides, and in particular of the fructooligosaccharides, is the selective stimulation of the growth of Bifidobacteria thus modifying significantly the composition of the colonic microbiota. Such a modification, which has clearly been demonstrated in human volunteers, is meant to be benificial in part because it is accompanied by a significant reduction in the number of bacteria reported to have pathogenic potential. Within the framework of research and development of "functional foods", such an effect justifies a "functional claim" for fructooligosaccharides namely "bifidogenesis". They are also typical "prebiotics". Besides their bifidogenic effect, the chicory fructooligosaccharides have additional nutritional properties on digestive physiological parameters like colonic pH and stool bulking which justify their classification as dietary fibers. Moreover, in experimental models, it has also been reported that they improve the bioavailability of essentiel minerals and that they reduce serum triglyceridemia by lowering hepatic lipogenesis. Such effects demonstrate interactions between the chicory fructooligosaccharides and key functions in the body but their significance for humans still need to be proven before being used to justify additional claims.

Fermentation and growth response of a primary poultry isolate of Salmonella typhimurium grown under strict anaerobic conditions in continuous culture and amino acid-limited batch culture.Salmonella typhimurium is a significant hazard to consumer health that is carried asymptomatically in poultry gastrointestinal tracts. Nurmi cultures may prevent Salmonella colonization in young chicks, but the mechanism of competitive exclusion is unclear. Modeling Salmonella's metabolism in pure culture may allow for greater definition in choosing strains for Nurmi cultures. The growth rates and affinity constants of S. typhimurium growing in amino acid-limited conditions were determined in batch culture and compared to primary poultry isolates of cecal strains. Serine and NH4Cl were the best N sources for growth of all organisms tested in this study. The fermentation response of S. typhimurium was also monitored in continuous culture at a slow dilution rate of 0.021 h-1. S. typhimurium was found to adapt to VL media, with trends in protein disappearance, Yglucose, and Yprotein. This may show that amino acid or protein concentrations may be an integral component of the initial establishment of S. typhimurium in the cecum.

N-nitroso compounds in the gastric juice of normal controls, patients with partial gastrectomies, and gastric cancer patients.It has been suggested that the variation of biochemical and microbiological parameters in the gastric juice may play a role in the development of gastric cancer. In the present study we concurrently assessed the presence of N-Nitroso compounds (NOC) and their precursors, bacteria and carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) in the gastric juice of normal controls, patients with gastric resection, and advanced gastric cancer.
Detailed analyses of biochemical and microbiological parameters such as pH, nitrite (NO2) concentration, N-nitroso compounds (NOC) concentration, carcino-embryonic antigen (CEA) level, total viable counts (TVC), nitrate-reductase positive bacterial counts (NRPBC), and identification of micro-organisms were carried out.
Significantly higher mean pH values, NO2, NOC and CEA concentrations, TVC, and NRPBC were found in partial gastrectomies compared with normal controls, and all these intragastric parameters were significantly higher in patients with gastric cancer than in those with partial gastrectomies. As far as surgical methods are concerned, higher mean pH values, NO2 and NOC concentrations, TVC, NRPBC, and anaerobic bacterial counts were observed in the juice of patients with Billroth II compared with Billroth I gastrectomies. Apart from the type of surgical reconstruction, higher mean NOC levels were recorded in patients with more severe histological changes and H. pylori infection.
All these data suggest that the presence of high levels of NOC in the gastric juice of gastroresected patients can be considered a risk factor of gastric stump cancer.

Methods for detecting local intestinal ischemic anaerobic metabolic acidosis by PCO2.Gut ischemia is often assessed by computing an imaginary tissue interstitial Ph from arterial plasma HCO3- and the PCO2 in a saline-filled balloon tonometer after equilibration with tissue PCO2 and (PtiCO2). PtiCO2 may alternatively be assumed equal to venous PCO2 (PVCO2) in that region of gut. The idea is that as blood flow decreases, gut PtiCO2 and PVCO2 will increase to the maximum aerobic value, i.e., maximum respiratory PVCO2 (PVCO2rmax). Above a "critical" anaerobic threshold, lactate (La-) generation, by titration of tissue HCO3-, should raise PtiCO2 above PVCO2rmax. During progressive selective whole intestinal flow reduction in six pentobarbital-anesthetized pigs, we used PCO2 electrodes to test the hypotheses that critical PtiCO2 is achieved earlier in mucosa than in serosa and that PVCO2rmax, computed using an in vitro model, predicts critical PtiCO2. We defined critical PtiCO2 as the inflection of PtiCO2-PVCo2 vs. O2 delivery (QO2) plots. Critical QO2 for O2 uptake was 12.55 +/- 2 ml.kg-1.min-1. Critical PtiCO2 for mucosa and serosa was achieved at similar whole intestine QO2 (13.90 +/- 5 and 13.36 +/- 5 ml.kg-1.min-1, P = NS). Critical PtiCO2 (129 +/- 24 and 96 +/- 21 Torr) exceeded PVCO2rmax (62 +/- 3 Torr). During ischemia, La- excretion into portal venous blood was matched by K+ excretion, causing PVCO2 to increase only slightly, despite PtiCO2 rising to 380 +/- 46 (mucosa) and 280 +/- 38 (serosa) Torr. These results suggest that mucosa and serosa become dysoxic simultaneously, that ischemic dysoxic gut is essentially perfused, and that in vitro predicted PVCO2rmax underestimates critical PtiCO2.

Iron acquisition by oral hemolytic spirochetes: isolation of a hemin-binding protein and identification of iron reductase activity.Oral anaerobic spirochetes (OAS) have been implicated in the etiology of periodontal disease. To adapt to the environment of the subgingiva, OAS must be able to acquire iron from limited sources. OAS have previously been shown not to produce siderophores but are beta-hemolytic and can bind hemin via a proteinaceous 47-kDa outer membrane sheath (OMS) receptor. Present studies show that [3H]hemin is not transported into the cytoplasm, that hemin and ferric ammonium citrate, as the sole iron sources, can support the growth of OAS and that protoporphyrin IX and Congo red are inhibitory, thereby implying an important in vivo role for hemin as an iron source. Treponema denticola ATCC 35405 produces an iron reductase. The iron reductase can reduce the central ferric iron moiety of hemin. The 47-kDa OMS hemin-binding protein has been purified to apparent homogeneity by methanol-chloroform extraction of cellular lipoproteins and the use of a hemin-agarose bead affinity column. A model of iron acquisition by OAS is presented.

Observation of a flavin semiquinone in the resting state of monoamine oxidase B by electron paramagnetic resonance and electron nuclear double resonance spectroscopy.Monoamine oxidase (MAO) plays an essential role in the regulation of various neurotransmitter and xenobiotic amines. Inhibitors of MAO have been employed in the treatment of depression and as adjuncts in Parkinson's disease therapy. X-Band and Q-band electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) and electron nuclear double resonance (ENDOR) spectroscopic techniques are employed to characterize a signal assigned as a stable red anionic semiquinone radical in the resting state of MAO B. It is shown that the radical signal is not affected during substrate (either benzylamine or phenylethylamine) turnover, by anaerobic incubation with substrate, or by covalent modification of the active site flavin cofactor in the catalytically active dimer. Upon denaturation, however, the semiquinone absorbances and EPR signals are lost. Photoreduction of the native enzyme in the presence of ethylenediaminetetraacetate generates an EPR signal that is not the same as that obtained in the resting state and shows different proton ENDOR signals. These results suggest that the two flavin prosthetic groups that exist in catalytically active monoamine oxidase B are physically distinct.

Anaerobic degradation of phthalic acid esters during digestion of municipal solid waste under landfilling conditions.Anaerobic microorganisms in municipal solid waste samples from laboratory-scale landfill reactors and a pilot-plant biogas digestor were investigated with the aim of assessing their ability to transform four commercially used phthalic acid esters (PAEs) and phthalic acid (PA). The PAEs studied were diethyl phthalate (DEP), butylbenzyl phthalate (BBP), dibutyl phthalate (DBP) and bis(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate (DEHP). No biological transformation of DEHP could be detected in any of the experiments. Together with waste samples from the simulated landfilling conditions, the PAEs (except DEHP) were hydrolytically transformed to their corresponding monoesters. These accumulated as end products, and in most cases they were not further degraded. During incubation with waste from the biogas digestor, the PAEs (except DEHP) were completely degraded to methane and carbon dioxide. The influence of the landfill development phase on the transformations was investigated utilizing PA and DEP as model substances. We found that during both the intense and stable methanogenic (but not the acidogenic) phases, the microorganisms in the samples had the potential to transform PA. A shorter lag phase was observed for the PA transformation in the samples from the stable methanogenic phase as compared with earlier phases. This indicates an increased capacity to degrade PA during the aging phases of the municipal solid waste in landfills. No enhancement of the DEP transformation could be observed as conditions in the methanogenic landfill model changed over a year's time. The results indicate that microorganisms developing in a methanogenic landfill environment have a substantially lower potential to degrade compared with those developing in a biogas reactor.

In vitro and in vivo binding of trimethoprim and sulphachlorpyridazine to equine food and digesta and their stability in caecal contents.Binding of antibiotics to food has received little attention in equine medicine, although such binding could potentially reduce the bioavailability and clinical efficacy. In the present study, binding of trimethoprim (TMP) and sulphachlorpyridazine (SCP) to hay, grass silage and concentrate was investigated in vitro in buffer at pH 6.8 at different concentrations. The binding of TMP and SCP to caecal contents was also studied. In addition, the degradation of TMP and SCP by the caecal microflora was investigated by incubating sterilized and non-sterilized caecal contents for 3 h at 37 degrees C under anaerobic conditions and comparing the TMP and SCP contents. Further, a TMP/SCP powder formulation was adminstered orally with concentrate at a dose rate of 5 mg/kg TMP and 25 mg/kg SCP to three ponies with a caecum fistula; the animals were deprived of food for 8 h before administration. Blood samples, caecal contents samples and faecal samples were collected and analysed for TMP and SCP concentrations by means of high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Three non-fistulated ponies, acting as control animals, were fed the same dose of TMP/SCP with concentrate after 8 h of food deprivation and blood samples were taken. The percentage of in vitro binding of TMP as well as SCP to hay, grass silage and concentrate at concentrations of 4 micrograms/mL to 10 micrograms/mL was high (60-90%). TMP and SCP were also extensively bound to caecal contents (50-70%). At spiking concentrations above 10 micrograms/mL the percentage of binding decreased. There was no evidence of biodegradation of TMP or SCP in caecal contents. In vivo, both drugs could be detected in the caecal contents and in the faeces of three fistulated ponies. However, the fistulated ponies differed from the control ponies in that their TMP and SCP plasma concentrations were higher, and two fistulated ponies did not show double peaks in their plasma concentration-time curves. Therefore, the fistulated ponies did not provide an optimal model for in vivo binding studies. Despite this limitation, it can be concluded that binding of TMP and SCP to food is a major cause of the limited bioavailability of these drugs in the horse. It is hypothesized that the binding is reversible, and that a second absorption phase occurs in the large intestine, but part of the administered dose remains bound as both drugs were found in the faeces.

Dietary fat affects heat production and other variables of equine performance, under hot and humid conditions.Does dietary fat supplementation during conditioning improve athletic performance, especially in the heat? Fat adaptation has been used to increase energy density, decrease bowel bulk and faecal output and reduce health risks associated with hydrolysable carbohydrate overload. It may also reduce spontaneous activity and reactivity (excitability), increase fatty acid oxidation, reduce CO2 production and associated acidosis, enhance metabolic regulation of glycolysis, improve both aerobic and anaerobic performance and substantially reduce heat production. A thermochemical analysis of ATP generation showed the least heat release during the direct oxidation of long chain fatty acids, which have a 3% advantage over glucose and 20 to 30% over short chain fatty acids and amino acids. Indirect oxidation via storage as triglyceride increased heat loss during ATP generation by 3% for stearic acid, 65% for glucose and 174% for acetic acid. Meal feeding and nutrient storage, therefore, accentuates the advantage of dietary fat. A calorimetric model was based on initial estimates of net energy for competitive work (10.76 MJ for the Endurance Test of an Olympic level 3-day-event), other work (14.4 MJ/day) and maintenance (36 MJ), then applied estimates of efficiencies to derive associated heat productions for the utilisation of 3 diets, Diet A: hay (100), Diet B: hay and oats (50:50) and Diet C: hay, oats and vegetable oil (45:45:10), the difference between the last 2 diets representing fat adaptation. During a 90.5 min speed and stamina test, heat production was estimated as 37, 35.4 and 34.6 MJ for the 3 diets, respectively, an advantage 0.8 MJ less heat load for the fat adapted horse, which would reduce water needed for evaporation by 0.33 kg and reduce body temperature increase by about 0.07 degree C. Total estimated daily heat production was 105, 93 and 88 MJ for the 3 diets, respectively, suggesting a 5 MJ advantage for the fat adapted horse (Diet C vs. Diet B). Estimated intake energy was 348, 269 and 239 MJ for the 3 diets, respectively, and corresponding daily intakes as fed were 22.2, 16.6 and 12.9 kg, an advantage of 3.7 kg for the fat adapted horse. Water requirement was estimated to decrease by about 6 kg/day in the fat adapted horse: 4 kg less faecal water output and 2 kg less water for evaporation. This model indicated that the fat supplemented diet reduced daily heat load by 5%, feed intake by 22%, faecal output (and bowel ballast) by 31% and water requirement by 12%. The advantage of fat supplementation over hay and oats was in general about half that gained by hay and oats over hay alone.

Tissue-arterial PCO2 difference is a better marker of ischemia than intramural pH (pHi) or arterial pH-pHi difference.Gastric intramucosal pH (pHi) is often calculated by the Henderson-Hasselbalch equation, using arterial plasma [HCO3-]ap and PCO2 measured in saline obtained from a silastic balloon tonometer after equilibration in the lumen of the stomach. A pHi value less than approximately 7.3 pH units is often taken as evidence of intestinal ischemia. An alternative measure is tissue PCO2 (PtCO2)-PaCO2 difference [P(t-a)CO2]. The idea is that PtCO2 will increase slightly relative to PaCO2 as O2 supply decreases, and then increase strikingly when flow decreases to a critical value, because of liberation of CO2 from tissue Hco3- by anaerobically generated strong acid. A third method is arterial plasma pH (pHap)-pHi difference [pH(ap-i)]. We used mathematical simulations to test the hypotheses that calculated pHi is independent of arterial acid-base status; and pH(ap-i) provides the same information as does P(t-a) CO2. Using the Van Slyke version of the arterial whole blood [standard base excess] ([SBE]aWB) equation, it was found that a change in [SBE]aWB at constant PaCO2 and constant PtCO2 produces a change in calculated pHi (P = 0), such that the relation between changing [SBE]aWB and changing pHi is predictable by a single polyomial equation (R2 = .999). pH(ap-i) avoids this confounding influence of [SBE]aWB. However, it was further shown that pH(ap-i) can be associated with a wide range of P(t-a)CO2, depending on the magnitude of pH(ap-i), and on the PaCO2 at which P(t-a)CO2 is measured. We conclude that P(t-a)CO2 is a more reliable index of gastric oxygenation than is pHi alone or pH(ap-i).

Metabolic effects of cold storage on livers from euthermic and hibernating Columbian ground squirrels.The current study was undertaken to investigate energy metabolism during hypoxia in the cold in livers from euthermic and hibernating Columbian ground squirrels. We hypothesized that the hibernating Columbian ground squirrel would be able to maintain liver energetics for a considerably longer time than euthermic animals. Particular reference was made to the function of glycolysis, which is the only mechanism for energy production under hypothermic ischemia. The transition from aerobic to anaerobic metabolism was apparent in both euthermic and hibernating animals as lactate levels rose within 1-3 h; total lactate accumulation was 2.5 micromol/g in both groups. In euthermic squirrels, liver ATP and ADP decreased considerably over the first 3-h storage; values dropped by 55% and 34%, respectively. Conversely, as the drain on high energy phosphate pools progressed, there was an increase in low energy adenylate, AMP. Between 10 and 24 h of storage, increases in AMP accounted for approximately 25-30% of total ATP + ADP decrease. The remainder of the drop in adenylates was accounted for by considerable decreases in total adenylate (TA) contents; by 24 h TA contents had decreased by 2.0 micromol/g. Livers from hibernating squirrels exhibited similar patterns of adenylate change and were not significantly higher than their euthermic counterparts. With respect to regulatory control of glycolysis, livers from euthermic squirrels exhibited no regulatory control at phosphofructokinase (PFK) or pyruvate kinase (PK). Livers from hibernating animals, however, showed an activation at PFK by 10 h of cold storage; levels of hexose phosphates, glucose-6-phosphate + fructose 6-phosphate (G6P + F6P), dropped and fructose 1, 6-biphosphate (F1,6P2), increased. Changes in metabolite levels (phosphoenolpyruvate and pyruvate) associated with another key suspect regulatory enzyme, PK, indicated no role in regulatory control of glycolysis during the 24-h period. The apparent increase in PFK responsiveness to declining energy stores may be a futile activation since there was no accompanying increase in anaerobic end product, lactate, and no maintenance of energetics.

Fermentation of carbohydrate in rat ileal excreta is enhanced with cecal inocula compared with fecal inocula.The differential fermentative capacities of microflora from two regions of the large bowel and how fermentation was altered by prior exposure of the microflora to the substrate to be fermented were studied using an in vitro fermentation system. Bacterial inocula were prepared from cecal contents and feces from three groups of rats fed purified diets containing 100 g/kg dietary fiber from canned peas or psyllium seed husk, or a nonpurified diet containing 170 g/kg dietary fiber. The substrate for all fermentations was ileal excreta from colectomized rats fed a purified diet containing 100 g/kg dietary fiber from canned peas. Anaerobic fermentations were conducted for 0, 3, 6, 12, 24, 48 and 96 h. Sugars of the unfermented polysaccharides were measured by gas chromatography following acid hydrolysis; disappearance was the measure of fermentation. Independent of inoculum source, > 90% of the starch and arabinose and 75% of the uronic acids, but < 30% of non-starch glucose (the measure of cellulose), were fermented by 24 h. Cecal inocula fermented arabinose and uronic acids more quickly (P < 0.05) and fermented more (P < 0.05) non-starch glucose than fecal inocula. Inocula adapted to psyllium seed husk fermented starch faster (P < 0.05) and non-starch glucose, arabinose and uronic acids more slowly (P < 0.05) than inocula adapted to peas or nonpurified diet. Bacterial efficiency of carbohydrate utilization, the increase in muramic acid/mole carbohydrate fermented, was greatest (P < 0.05) with cecal inocula adapted to peas. We conclude that using cecal microflora as the inoculum source provides a more accurate index of fermentation during transit through the large bowel and that noncellulosic and storage polysaccharides of the plant cell wall are utilized before cellulose.

Experimental studies of intestinal ion and water transport.A major advance in transport physiology was H. H. Ussing's development of the voltage-clamp method, and later the Koefoed-Johnsen-Ussing model for Na+ transport. In the same decade, J. C. Skou identified the Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase, which maintains the Na+ and K+ gradients that drive most epithelial transport processes. With this foundation, Danish scientists have pursued the mechanism of ion transport and the resulting solute-linked water flow. Recent contributions have been on isosmotic transport, suggesting solute recycling, and KCl-water cotransport in the basolateral epithelial cell membrane. Efficient small intestinal nutrient absorption is dependent on coupling to the Na+ gradient. Cotransport of Na+ and glucose is quantitatively the most important absorptive mechanism in the small intestine, as illustrated by the success of oral rehydration solutions in diarrhoea. The majority of amino acids are likewise transported by Na+ dependent carriers, but recent experiments have identified a concomitant Cl- dependency for some. Regulation of intestinal secretion, both under normal digestive processes, and in response to enterotoxins, has turned out to be very complex. It involves local and central neuronal regulation through an array of neurotransmitters and local actions of gastrointestinal hormones. Major effectors are the submucosal neurons and the main transmitters serotonin, vasoactive intestinal peptide, acetylcholine, substance P, and neurotensin. Development of antisecretagogues is impeded by the existence of several receptor subtypes and significant species differences. The Na+ and water-conserving properties of the large intestine have been shown to be regulated by adrenocortical hormones, with aldosterone as a potent stimulator of colonic Na+ absorption. A major colonic function is the symbiosis with the anaerobic bacterial population. The fermentation of carbohydrate to short-chain fatty acids, which can be absorbed, supplements small intestinal digestive function.

Simulation of constituent processes of anaerobic degradation of organic matter by the "methane" model.The model of anaerobic digestion described earlier by the authors was used for analysis of the different phases of the process. It was shown that at the glucose conversion a coexistence of hydrogen-producing acidogenic bacteria and hydrogen-utilizing non-methanogenic bacteria causes a hydrogen partial pressure decrease at an increase of solids retention time (i), the intensity of the negative feed-back effect in sulfate-reduction through hydrogen sulfide formation is regulated by the pH level during an oscillation dynamics in acetate/sulfate system (ii), under the toxicity influence the processes of methanogenesis and acetogenesis together with hydrolysis may be rate-limiting steps in the anaerobic system with particulate substrate degradation (iii).

Lactitol enhances short-chain fatty acid and gas production by swine cecal microflora to a greater extent when fermenting low rather than high fiber diets.The study was conducted to determine if the response of swine cecal microflora to lactitol (beta-D-galactopyranosyl-(1-->4)-D-sorbitol; 3 mmol/L) varies when fermenting low (LF) or high fiber (HF) predigested diets. The inoculum was collected from four sows fitted with cecal cannulas, pooled, buffered and dispensed in 27 vessels under anaerobic conditions. The LF or HF predigested diets were used as substrate in two separate experiments. In each trial nine vessels were used as controls (C) without feed addition, nine received predigested feed (LF or HF) and the remaining nine vessels received the same amount of feed with the supplementation of lactitol (LF+L or HF+L). Lactitol (L) significantly lowered pH and the acetic to propionic acid ratio in the first 8 h of fermentation in both experiments (P < 0.05). At 4 and 8 h, the addition of lactitol reduced ammonia by 100 and 84% in LF+L and by 56 and 38% in HF+L (P < 0.05). In addition, LF+L and HF+L diets gave higher short-chain fatty acid energy yields by 70 and 40% than LF and HF, respectively (P < 0.05). Two bacterial growth models (logistic and Gompertz) were tested to fit gas production data. The Gompertz equation provided a better fit than the logistic model to gas production data for both LF and HF experiments. Lactitol reduced culture lag time in both experiments by approximately 50%, but it increased gas production rate and maximum gas production by approximately 60% only when the microflora was fermenting the LF predigested diet (P < 0.05). No difference in the duration of the exponential phase due to lactitol was observed in either experiment. Our results indicate that lactitol may be an interesting additive to animal feeding. It controlled harmful fermentation processes and stimulated short-chain fatty acid production to a greater extent in low than in high fiber diets, suggesting an improved fermentation of low fiber feed carbohydrates and eventually an increased availability of short-chain fatty acids for the host.

Bacterial translocation in acute liver injury induced by D-galactosamine.Acute liver injury is associated with a high rate of infectious and septic complications. Most of these infections are produced by gram negative enteric bacteria. We evaluated bacterial translocation, intestinal permeability, blood flow, portal pressure, and intestinal microflora after induction of liver injury and 70% liver resection in the rat. The rate of translocation to both portal and arterial blood was 100% at 24 hours and 50% at 48 hours after liver resection compared with 83% to portal vein and 50% to aortic blood at both time points after acute liver injury. Translocation to intraabdominal organs (liver, spleen, and mesenteric lymph nodes) was 100% in both groups at both 24 and 48 hours. The rate of translocation increased after liver injury at 48 hours with progression of the liver injury but was decreased in the 70% liver resection group with improvement of liver function. "Total aerobic" and "total anaerobic" bacterial counts in small intestine and cecum were not affected. Pulmonary, distal small intestine, and cecal blood flow were decreased in both groups, whereas blood flow in the proximal small intestine was unaffected. Portal pressure and flow were increased after 70% liver resection, but they were decreased in acute liver injury. After acute liver injury, permeability of both distal small intestine and cecum increased, but after liver resection only cecal permeability increased. The results of this experiment show that bacterial translocation occurs in experimental acute liver injury and that its dynamic, pattern and fate are different from that observed after liver resection, which is a reversible surgical model of liver insufficiency.

Some characteristics of the fluorescence lifetime of reduced pyridine nucleotides in isolated mitochondria, isolated hepatocytes, and perfused rat liver in situ.By extensively examining the experimental conditions for time-resolved spectrophotometry of non-transparent light scattering systems, we demonstrated the feasibility of quantitative analysis of both the fluorescence lifetime and intensity of reduced pyridine nucleotides in living tissues, suspensions of isolated liver mitochondria, and hepatocytes, as well as hemoglobin-free perfused rat liver being used systematically for measurements. The fluorescence decay was analyzed by the maximum likelihood method with a 4-component decay model. The lifetime of NADH observed in mitochondria (mean: 2.8 +/- 0.2 ns) was much longer than that of the free form in an aqueous solution (mean: 0.43 +/- 0.01 ns), and it was characterized as a protein-bound form. The lifetime was not affected by either aerobic or anaerobic conditions nor by the energy state, though the intensity changed markedly. The decay curves of isolated hepatocytes under normal aerobic conditions were the same as those of isolated mitochondria, though cytosolic NADH and NADPH were superimposed. Under the conditions of "unphysiological" acidosis, the mean lifetime became about 1.5 times longer than that under normal conditions. With perfused liver, the relative contributions of cytosolic NADH and NADPH were determined by infusing lactate and tert-butylhydroperoxide. Cytosolic NADH did not contribute to the overall fluorescence of pyridine nucleotides. In contrast, about 70% of the total fluorescence intensity was due to cytosolic NADPH, but its decay parameters were essentially the same as those of mitochondrial NADH. No free form of either NADH or NADPH was detected in the cytosolic and mitochondrial spaces. We concluded that the changes in fluorescence intensity observed under the various conditions can be simply explained by a change in the amount of reduced pyridine nucleotides in tissues, rather than by changes in the microscopic environment. The wide applicability of time-resolved fluorescence photometry to in vivo studies is well documented.

Gut intramucosal pH and intraluminal PO2 in a porcine model of peritonitis or haemorrhage.The tonometric method of detecting decreased gut intramucosal pH (pHi) is based on the fact that carbon dioxide can diffuse through the wall of the silastic balloon of the tonometer. By using deoxified saline and measuring PO2 as well as PCO2 this study aimed to follow changes in mucosal PO2 and relate them to changes in pHi in peritonitis versus haemorrhage. Twenty five pigs were used. Five were controls, in 10 peritonitis was induced by the instillation of faeces in the abdominal cavity, and 10 were bled, half of them stepwise during three hours, and half of them rapidly down to a mean (SEM) arterial pressure of 30 (10) mm Hg. The drop in pHi correlated well with decreasing intraluminal PO2 (r = 0.63 (0.13)) in haemorrhage. In peritonitis this drop occurred within a very limited change in intraluminal PO2 (r = 0.06 (0.17)). Thus oxygen seemed to be present in the mucosa at the same time as there were signs of anaerobic metabolism as evidenced by a low intramucosal pH. Impaired oxygen extraction or utilisation, or both, is proposed as an explanation to this seemingly paradoxical situation.

Characterization of the iron-binding site in mammalian ferrochelatase by kinetic and Mössbauer methods.All organisms utilize ferrochelatase (protoheme ferrolyase, EC 4.99.1.1) to catalyze the terminal step of the heme biosynthetic pathway, which involves the insertion of ferrous ion into protoporphyrin IX. Kinetic methods and Mössbauer spectroscopy have been used in an effort to characterize the ferrous ion-binding active site of recombinant murine ferrochelatase. The kinetic studies indicate that dithiothreitol, a reducing agent commonly used in ferrochelatase activity assays, interferes with the enzymatic production of heme. Ferrochelatase specific activity values determined under strictly anaerobic conditions are much greater than those obtained for the same enzyme under aerobic conditions and in the presence of dithiothreitol. Mössbauer spectroscopy conclusively demonstrates that, under the commonly used assay conditions, dithiothreitol chelates ferrous ion and hence competes with the enzyme for binding the ferrous substrate. Mössbauer spectroscopy of ferrous ion incubated with ferrochelatase in the absence of dithiothreitol shows a somewhat broad quadrupole doublet. Spectral analysis indicates that when 0.1 mM Fe(II) is added to 1.75 mM ferrochelatase, the overwhelming majority of the added ferrous ion is bound to the protein. The spectroscopic parameters for this bound species are delta = 1.36 +/- 0.03 mm/s and delta EQ = 3.04 +/- 0.06 mm/s, distinct from the larger delta EQ of a control sample of Fe(II) in buffer only. The parameters for the bound species are consistent with an active site composed of nitrogenous/oxygenous ligands and inconsistent with the presence of sulfur ligands. This finding is in accord with the absence of conserved cysteines among the known ferrochelatase sequences. The implications these results have with regard to the mechanism of ferrochelatase activity are discussed.

Effect of Bacteroides melaninogenicus culture supernatant and deconjugated bile salt on lipid absorption.Lipid malabsorption is a common clinical manifestation of small bowel bacterial overgrowth. Its pathogenesis, however, remains controversial. Bacteroides melaninogenicus ssp. intermedius, an anaerobic bacterium, is commonly isolated from the upper bowel of patients with small intestinal bacterial overgrowth. The effects of a culture supernate of this organism and deoxycholate, an unconjugated bile salt, on intestinal oleic acid absorption were examined using a rat closed-loop model. The supernatant reduced the in vitro uptake of oleic acid by 19% (P< 0.001). Deoxycholate did not significantly reduce the lipid absorption. Combined supernate and deoxycholate did not have an additive effect on absorption of oleic acid. We conclude that anaerobic bacterial products may contribute to the malabsorption of lipid in the setting of bacterial overgrowth of the small bowel.

Stimulation of glycolysis by histidine buffers in mammalian liver during cold hypoxia.This study was designed to address the reasons why glycolysis in mammalian liver is unable to function more efficiently during periods of cold hypoxia. Our hypothesis was that control of intracellular pH, by use of amino acid buffers with high pKa values, would allow prolonged flux through glycolysis and better maintenance of liver high-energy adenine nucleotide pool. The effects of two concentrations of histidine (90 and 180 mM) and one of carnosine (90 mM), a histidyl dipeptide, on energy metabolism and levels of glycolytic substrate (glucose) and anaerobic endproduct (lactate) were investigated during cold hypoxia using rat livers to model the mammalian system. The transition to anaerobic metabolism was apparent by an immediate rise in lactate levels upon entry into cold hypoxia. By 10-14 h hypoxia, contents of the endproduct had increased by 10, 13.5, and 14.5 mumol/g in buffers containing 90 and 180 mM histidine and 90 mM carnosine, respectively. As well, ATP, total adenylate contents, and "energy charge" ratios exhibited a rapid decline from initial values of 2.3-3.3 mumol/g, 4.3-5.5 mumol/g, and 0.64-0.75, respectively, over the first 2-4 h of cold hypoxia. With respect to efficacy, the 180 mM histidine buffer exhibited the most positive maintenance of adenylate levels, followed closely by 90 mM carnosine, and finally 90 mM histidine as the least effective of the three buffers. Nevertheless, all three buffers examined in this study showed positive effects compared to similarly treated livers stored in a solution of minor buffering capacity (a citrate-based solution) over the same time period. The data support the hypothesis that glycolytic flux and cellular energetics can be maintained by the inclusion of efficient buffering agents during periods of cold hypoxia.

Potentiation of 2,6-dinitrotoluene genotoxicity in Fischer 344 rats by pretreatment with coal tar creosote.Pretreatment of male Fischer 344 rats for 5 wk with coal tar creosote, a coal distillation product that is widely used as a wood preservative, potentiated the excretion of urinary mutagens in 2,6-dinitrotoluene (DNT) treated rats. Creosote increased the bioactivation of DNT to significantly greater levels of urinary genotoxic metabolites and/or formed DNA adducts in the liver. A significant increase in the excretion of mutagenic DNT metabolites was observed after the first week of creosote treatment, peaked at wk 3, and then decreased by 33% after 5 wk of treatment. Nevertheless, there was a significant increase (66%) in the formation of DNT-derived DNA adducts in the livers of rats treated with DNT plus creosote at wk 5. Increased cecal beta-glucuronidase activity and reduced small intestinal nitroreductase activity may play roles in the bioactivation of DNT. The excretion of mutagenic DNT metabolites supplies useful information about the bioactivation of DNT; it does not provide a useful index of DNT-derived hepatic DNA adduct formation. Such interactions could be important to predictive risk assessment because the overall cancer risk of such chemical mixtures may exceed the sum of the component risks.

Colonic absorption and bioavailability of the pentapeptide metkephamid in the rat.The concept of delivering systemically active peptide drugs to the colon in order to improve their oral absorption requires reasonable peptide permeability of the large intestinal wall and stability against the activity of the colonic microflora. In addition, the role of hepatic extraction needs to be addressed. In this study the absorption of the pentapeptide metkephamid following single pass perfusion of rat ascending colon was investigated by monitoring its disappearance from the large intestine and simultaneous appearance in the portal vein, the hepatic vein and the aorta. In addition its stability against colonic microflora was tested in vitro using pig caecal contents. Metkephamid was absorbed from the large intestine and appeared in the blood circulation; peptide concentrations in the portal vein increased over-proportionally with increasing perfusate concentrations (0.1-4.6 mmol/L) from 0.19 microgram/mL +/- 0.12 (SD, n = 7) to 31.6 micrograms/mL + 20.65 (SD, n = 4), respectively, and thus suggesting a saturable transport or metabolism. Concentrations in the hepatic vein were significantly lower than in the portal vein, hepatic extraction ratios were 0.35 +/- 0.14, 0.61 +/- 0.18 and 0.62 +/- 0.28 (SD, n = 4) for 0.1, 0.5 and 1.0 mM metkephamid perfusate concentrations, respectively. In the anaerobic colon metabolism model the degradation half-life of the peptide was 14.9 hours, thus, indicating relative stability in the bacterial environment of the colon. The results of the present study encourage further investigations on colonic delivery of peptide drugs.

Kinetics of fiber digestion from in vitro gas production.In vitro gas production, measured by computer-interfaced pressure sensors, was used to follow the digestion of a crystalline processed cellulose, a bacterial cellulose, and mixtures of these substrates by mixed ruminal bacteria. A first-order, substrate limited model (simple exponential with lag) and two bacterial growth models (logistic, Gompertz) were tested to fit these data. No single pool model gave an optimal fit to all substrates, but dual pool versions of both the logistic and Gompertz models fitted the data extremely well. Derivations of these models in the context of gas production are presented. The dual pool version of the exponential model commonly used to analyze fiber digestion was not able to reproduce the slope variations seen with mixed substrates. A modified dual pool logistic equation, with a single lag value, was selected to model the in vitro digestion of these substrates. The model was able to predict adequately both the input composition and the kinetic parameters for a defined mixture and gave a good fit (r2 > .995) to data from all the single and mixed substrates tested. This model may be useful for interpreting gas accumulation from natural feedstuffs.

Solubilization of lignin by the ruminal anaerobic fungus Neocallimastix patriciarum.The ability of the ruminal anaerobic phycomycete Neocallimastix patriciarum to digest model lignin compounds and lignified structures in plant material was studied in batch culture. The fungus did not degrade or transform model lignin compounds that were representative of the predominant intermonomer linkages in lignin, nor did it solubilize acid detergent lignin that had been isolated from spear grass. In a stem fraction of sorghum, 33.6% of lignin was apparently solubilized by the fungus. Solubilization of ester- and either-linked phenolics accounted for 9.2% of the lignin released. The amounts of free phenolic acids detected in culture fluid were equivalent to the apparent loss of ester-linked phenolics from the sorghum substrate. However, the fungus was unable to cleave the ether bond in hydroxycinnamic acid bridges that cross-link lignin and polysaccharide. It is suggested that the majority of the solubilized lignin fraction was a lignin carbohydrate complex containing ether-linked hydroxycinnamic acids. The lignin carbohydrate complex was probably solubilized through dissolution of xylan in the lignin-xylan matrix rather than by lignin depolymerization.

Kinetic study of anaerobic digestion of fruit-processing wastewater in immobilized-cell bioreactors.The kinetics of the anaerobic digestion of a fruit-processing wastewater [chemical oxygen demand (COD) = 5.1 g/l] were investigated. Laboratory experiments were carried out in bioreactors containing supports of different chemical composition and features, namely bentonite and zeolite (aluminum silicates), sepiolite and saponite (magnesium silicates) and polyurethane foam, to which the microorganisms responsible for the process adhered. The influence of the support medium on the kinetics was compared with a control digester with suspended biomass. Assuming the overall anaerobic digestion process conforms to first-order kinetics, the specific rate constant, K0, was determined for each of the experimental reactors. The average values obtained were: 0.080 h-1 (bentonite); 0.103 h-1 (zeolite); 0.180 h-1 (sepiolite); 0.198 h-1 (saponite); 0.131 h-1 (polyurethane); and 0.037 h-1 (control). The results indicate that the support used to immobilize the micro-organisms had a marked influence on the digestion process; the results were significant at the 95% confidence level. Methanogenic activity increased linearly with COD, with the saponite and sepiolite supports showing the highest values. The yield coefficient of methane was 270 ml of methane (under standard temperature and pressure conditions)/g of COD. The average elimination of COD was 89.5%.

Enrichment of bifidobacteria from human gut contents by oligofructose using continuous culture.Chemostat cultures of human faecal bacteria were used to determine the bifidogenic effect of oligofructose, a fermentable carbohydrate found in a number of plants. In single stage continuous culture, oligofructose preferentially enriched for bifidobacteria, in comparison to sucrose and inulin. This stimulatory effect was enhanced at a high dilution rate, high substrate concentration and low pH. These parameters are likely to approximate to those that occur in the proximal colon. Studies with a three-stage continuous culture model of the large intestine confirmed the bifidogenic effect of oligofructose. These in vitro data indicate that an increase in the concentration of fructose-based oligosaccharides in the diet may alter the balance of the gut microflora towards bifidobacteria, a purported health-promoting genus.

Quinolone therapy in the prevention of endogenous and exogenous infection after irradiation.The effect of oral therapy with 6 quinolones, lomefloxacin, ofloxacin, sparfloxacin, temafloxacin, CI-960, and CI-990 in the prevention of post-irradiation bacteraemia and mortality was tested in mice. Two models were used, the C3H/HeN mouse strain for endogenously acquired infection and the B6D2F1 mouse strain for studies of exogenously acquired Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection. Each therapy or water-fed control group included 40 mice, 20 for monitoring survival and 20 for obtaining liver cultures. In C3H/HeN mice, mortality in the groups that received each of the quinolones except CI-960 was significantly lower (P < 0.05) than in the water-treated mice. Survival was 54/60 (90%) with lomefloxacin 51/60 (85%) with ofloxacin, 50/60 (83%) with CI-990, 45/60 (75%) with sparfloxacin, 37/60 (62%) with temafloxacin, 9/60 (15%) for the control group, and 6/60 (10%) for CI-960. Enterobacteriaceae were isolated from 38 of 53 (72%) and Streptococcus spp. from 13 of 53 (25%) of the livers of control mice. The number of Enterobacteriaceae was lower in quinolone-treated mice. However, isolation of streptococci was similar to controls, except in those treated with sparfloxacin and CI-990. In B6D2F1 mice, mortality and isolation of P. aeruginosa in each of the quinolone group was significantly lower than for controls (P < 0.001). These data illustrate the efficacy of the quinolones in the therapy of exogenous infection, and the inability of those effective against anaerobic bacteria to prevent endogenous infection.

Relationship of oral malodor to periodontitis: evidence of independence in discrete subpopulations.Associations between oral malodor, measures of periodontal disease, and trypsin-like activity of periodontal pathogens on tongue and teeth were examined in 127 subjects. Volatile sulphur compound (VSC) measurements were made with a portable sulphide monitor; oral malodor was also estimated by organoleptic methods. Measurements repeated one week apart indicated that steady-state VSC levels (r = 0.72; P = 0.0001) and peak VSC levels (r = 0.63; P = 0.0001) were reproducible but these r values were not significantly different (P > 0.1). There was a significant correlation between tongue odor and peak VSC levels (r = 0.40; P = 0.0001) and between tongue odor and whole mouth organoleptic measures (r = 0.55; P = 0.0001). To study the effect of reducing microbial colonization on oral malodor, chlorhexidine gluconate (0.2%) rinsing was prescribed for 7 days. Reductions of VSC levels were significant for both peak (37%) and steady-state (41%) data (P = 0.0001). Anaerobic periodontal pathogens on the tongue estimated by the proportions of positive BANA tests were reduced 19% (P = 0.001) and this was concomitant with a 40% (P = 0.0001) decrease in organoleptic measurement of the tongue dorsum. Mean pH measurements of the tongue dorsum showed large reductions from 6.9 initially to 6.3 post-treatment (P = 0.0001). Subjects were divided into periodontitis/no periodontitis based on periodontal inflammation and probing depth (> or = 5 mm). Of the 37 subjects with periodontitis, 23 had oral malodor whereas 52 out of 90 periodontally healthy subjects exhibited malodor. Chi square analysis comparing halitosis in subjects with and without periodontitis showed no statistically significant association (chi 2 = 0.208; P 0.65) between these two factors although the intensity of malodor as based on VSC concentration in periodontally healthy subjects was 19% less (mean = 111 ppb) than in subjects with periodontitis (mean = 136 ppb). The odds ratio was 1.2, indicating that oral malodor was not associated with periodontitis. These data indicate that a large proportion of individuals with oral malodor are periodontally healthy and that the mucosal surface of the tongue is a major site of oral malodor production.

Anoxia-tolerant hepatocytes: model system for study of reversible metabolic suppression.Chrysemys picta bellii is well known for its ability to survive extended anoxic periods and has been widely used as a model system to study anoxic metabolism. Described here is a method for the isolation of anoxia-tolerant hepatocytes from this species. Freshly isolated hepatocytes were determined to be viable based on trypan blue exclusion, gluconeogenic capacity from [14C]lactate, responsiveness to epinephrine and glucagon, and maintenance of cellular adenylate concentrations. Under anoxic conditions for 10 h there was no significant increase in cell staining and no decrease in cellular ATP concentration. Furthermore, the addition of cyanide at the 5-h mark did not result in any significant differences in these parameters; however, iodoacetate added at this time caused trypan blue staining to increase and ATP concentrations to fall. The rate of glucose production from the cells was threefold greater under anoxic than normoxic conditions, underscoring the important role of the liver in supplying substrate during anoxia. From the rate of O2 consumption and rate of lactate production under anaerobic conditions, ATP turnover rates were calculated to be 68.4 +/- 7.2 and 6.5 +/- 0.43 mumol ATP.g-1.h-1, respectively; this corresponds to a 90% decrease in metabolic rate during anoxia. Within a cellular system such as this the more complex regulatory mechanisms involved in a large coordinated reduction in metabolism can be probed.

Application of an immobilized digestive enzyme assay to measure chemical and enzymatic hydrolysis of the cyclic peptide antibiotic lysobactin.The natural product lysobactin is a cyclic peptide with greater antibiotic activity than vancomycin against Gram-positive aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. Although the potency of orally administered lysobactin has not been reported, lysobactin hydrolysis in the digestive tract following oral administration would be difficult to predict because of the cyclic structure and presence of beta-hydroxy and D-amino acids. Therefore, lysobactin served as a model compound for study using an in vitro assay to predict if hydrolysis in the digestive tract might severely limit its bioavailability. The in vitro immobilized digestive enzyme assay consisted of a gastric digester containing immobilized pepsin, and an intestinal digester consisting of immobilized trypsin, chymotrypsin, and mucosal peptidases. In order to determine the sites of lysobactin hydrolysis by each enzyme, lysobactin was incubated separately with immobilized pepsin, trypsin, chymotrypsin, or mucosal peptidases. Lysobactin was also incubated with a mixture of intestinal enzymes. The hydrolysis products of lysobactin in each incubation mixture were rapidly identified using reversed-phase HPLC, continuous-flow FAB/LC-MS, and tandem MS. Lysobactin was essentially stable at low pH and was not hydrolyzed by immobilized pepsin. Above pH 7, nonenzymatic hydrolysis of the lactone moiety occurred followed by proteolysis by all intestinal enzymes investigated. Lysobactin was not directly hydrolyzed by immobilized pepsin, chymotrypsin, trypsin, or mucosal peptidases. Hydrolysis rates of lysobactin at pH 7.5 with active or inactivated chymotrypsin were measured and were compared with the rate of chymotrypsin hydrolysis of the open-chain form following hydrolysis of the lactone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Degradative activities of gut anaerobes studied in a three-stage continuous culture model of the colon.

Benzyl viologen inactivation of rat liver glutamine synthetase.Partially purified glutamine synthetase from rat liver underwent rapid inactivation upon incubation with NADH and benzyl viologen, under aerobic conditions. This in vitro inactivation was prevented by catalase or chelating-agents, which suggests that hydrogen peroxide and metal ions are involved in the process. Similar inactivation was observed when the rat liver glutamine synthetase was preincubated, under anaerobic conditions, with NADH and benzyl viologen, and hydrogen peroxide was added to the reaction mixture. A radical scavenger, histidine, partially prevents the inactivation, while hydrogen peroxide shows a low inactivation capacity when incubated without NADH. Furthermore, the fact that the inactivation can also be catalyzed by a model consisting of ferrous ions and hydrogen peroxide leads to the conclusion that hydroxyl radicals, or something with similar reactivity, are most likely produced through a Fenton reaction.

Mixed continuous cultures of Streptococcus mutans with Streptococcus sanguis or with Streptococcus oralis as a model to study the ecological effects of the lactoperoxidase system.Mixed continuous cultures of Streptococcus species were obtained, using complex carbohydrate (mucin) as a source of nutrients, to study the ecological effects of oxygen and the lactoperoxidase system. S. mutans NCTC 10449 was unable to grow as a pure culture on mucin, but attained a significant population size in the presence of S. oralis and S. sanguis strains. The cell densities of the anaerobic mixed cultures decreased when oxygen was supplied, and S. mutans was more suppressed by oxygen than were S. sanguis and S. oralis. However, the concentrations of hydrogen peroxide (30 mumol/l in the mixed culture of S. mutans with S. sanguis and 640 mumol/l in the culture with S. oralis) indicated a certain resistance of the organisms to hydrogen peroxide. Addition of lactoperoxidase and thiocyanate to the oxygen-supplied cultures had a differential effect on the streptococcal populations. While S. mutans was inhibited, and even disappeared in the culture with S. oralis, the growth of S. sanguis and S. oralis was unaffected. This latter observation was in accordance with the OSCN- reductase activities of these organisms. When hydrogen peroxide was also added together with lactoperoxidase and thiocyanate, a further inhibition of S. mutans in the culture with S. sanguis was observed. Under these conditions, S. oralis was also inhibited, perhaps by the strong accumulation of OSCN-, exceeding the capacity of the OSCN- reductase. The effects of lactoperoxidase on mixed cultures may reflect the situation in the mouth.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Flow-limited tracer oxygen distribution in the isolated perfused rat liver: effects of temperature and hematocrit.We used the multiple-indicator dilution technique to examine the kinetics of tracer oxygen distribution and uptake in the rat liver perfused in a nonrecirculating fashion with blood. 51Cr-labeled 18O2-saturated erythrocytes, labeled albumin, sucrose and water (the tracers for oxygen and vascular, interstitial and cellular references) were injected simultaneously into the portal vein. Timed anaerobic samples were collected from the hepatic vein and analyzed by mass spectrometry for relative 18O2 enrichment and radioactivity. In a set of experiments performed at 32 degrees C, oxygen uptake was substantially diminished; tracer oxygen profiles approached those expected for a completely recovered, flow-limited substance. At 37 degrees C, much larger tracer oxygen sequestration occurred. Experiments were carried out at each temperature at higher and lower hematocrit, and oxygen consumption at each temperature was found to be independent of hematocrit. The tissue space of distribution for tracer oxygen relative to the total sinusoidal vascular content was influenced by the hematocrit: it was smaller at higher hematocrit and larger at lower hematocrit, as expected. The derived partition coefficient of oxygen for liver cells relative to plasma (expressed in terms of the liver and plasma water spaces) was, on average, 2.62 ml/ml; it was independent of the hematocrit. Analysis of the indicator dilution experiments indicates that the tracer oxygen is distributed into tissue in a flow-limited rather than a barrier-limited fashion, and that with this, an ongoing concomitant intracellular sequestration of tracer can be seen.

Low-dose dopamine hastens onset of gut ischemia in a porcine model of hemorrhagic shock.Gut metabolism may become anaerobic before the whole body during progressive phlebotomy in dogs. Because dopamine has selective mesenteric vasodilator effects, we asked whether dopamine could delay onset of bowel ischemia during hemorrhagic shock. We studied whole body and gut O2 consumption (VO2) and O2 delivery (QO2) using progressive phlebotomy in anesthetized pigs. Nine pigs received a dopamine infusion of 2 micrograms.kg-1.min-1, whereas a control group of seven pigs received equivalent saline infusion. Onset of ischemia in whole body and gut was determined as critical O2 delivery (QO2c), the intersection point of biphasic regression on plots of VO2-QO2 relationships. Blood flow and O2 extraction were measured as mechanisms of gut ischemia for entire in situ small and large gut using a superior mesenteric venous fistula. Dopamine hastened onset of gut ischemia relative to onset of whole body ischemia (gut critical point in terms of whole body QO2 9.9 +/- 2.1 ml O2.kg-1.min-1, whole body QO2c 7.8 +/- 0.7 ml O2.kg-1.min-1, P less than 0.01). In contrast, onset of gut ischemia in control animals occurred at same time as onset of whole body ischemia (gut critical point in terms of whole body QO2 7.4 +/- 2.3 ml O2.kg-1.min-1, whole body QO2c 7.1 +/- 2.7 ml O2.kg-1.min-1, P = not significant). Hastening of onset of gut ischemia in dopamine-treated animals was associated with decreased ability of gut to extract O2. Low-dose dopamine was not protective against gut ischemia during shock but rather caused earlier onset of gut ischemia during hemorrhagic shock.

Hypoxia-induced bacterial translocation in the puppy.Because hypoxia is one of the most common major stresses to which a neonate is exposed, we postulated that it alone might be the cause of intestinal bacterial translocation, which could be the underlying etiology of neonatal sepsis. An animal model, in which hypoxia is the sole stress, was developed in our laboratory and tested in 18 puppies to determine the effect of hypoxia and reoxygenation on intestinal bacterial translocation. In group I (n = 8), following laparotomy and cannulation of the superior mesenteric vein (SMV), the FIO2 was decreased from 21% to 9% for 90 minutes followed by reoxygenation at 21% for 120 minutes. The abdomen was closed and the animals were allowed to recover. After 24 hours the mesenteric lymph nodes (MLNs), spleen, and liver were harvested for bacterial determination and the ileum and jejunum for histological evaluation. Group II (n = 7) was treated the same as group I with the FIO2 maintained at 21%. Group III (n = 3) animals were killed, without intervention, for bacterial analysis. In group I, the systemic PO2 decreased by 75%, SMV PO2 decreased by 64%, and oxygen delivery to the small bowel decreased by 80% in comparison with group II. The mean arterial pressure and cardiac output were not significantly different between group I and group II; however, the mucosal blood flow was decreased by 60% (P less than .001) in group I. Arterial and SMV blood lactic acid levels were unchanged in group I in comparison with group II, suggesting that anaerobic metabolism was not initiated in the splanchnic circulation during hypoxia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Total orthotopic small bowel transplantation with cyclosporine: morphology and function in a swine model.

Faecal steroids and colorectal cancer: the effect of lactulose on faecal bacterial metabolism in a continuous culture model of the large intestine.The effect of lactulose on intestinal bacterial metabolism in two identical single-stage chemostats has been studied. The study was designed as a single stage crossover. Both cultures were inoculated and treated in an identical manner except that whilst one fermenter was subject to pH control the other was not and vice versa. Complex bacterial populations were maintained for 23 days and many of the metabolic functions carried out by the micro-organisms in vivo were demonstrated in vitro. The predominant organisms belonged to the genera Bacteroides, Bifidobacterium and Clostridium with abundant levels of anaerobic Gram-positive rods. The redox potential in each fermenter showed considerable variation with maximum values of below -300 eV being attained. An indication of the stability of the bacterial communities was the production of short-chain volatile fatty acids; during steady-state conditions the mean ratio of the major acids acetic, propionic and butyric being 3.90:0.69:1.00 and 3.65:0.76:1.00 in each fermenter, respectively. During steady-state conditions, 7 alpha-dehydroxylation of the primary bile acid chenodeoxycholic acid was maintained at a constant rate with lithocholic acid representing over 85% of total steroid. Addition of the soluble fibre lactulose to the cultures had a profound effect on many of the parameters tested. Without pH control the culture pH dropped to below 5.0 and this coincided with a substantial decrease in total anaerobes, especially Bacteroides spp., an increase in Lactobacillus spp. (concomitant with an increase in lactic acid), a decrease in the concentration of short-chain volatile fatty acids and a substantial decrease in 7 alpha-dehydroxylation of chenodeoxycholic acid. These results show that it is possible to maintain viable intestinal bacteria in vitro using a continuous culture chemostat and that the cultures respond to changing conditions as evinced by the inhibition of 7 alpha-dehydroxylation of chenodeoxycholic acid on addition of lactulose. This indicates that the model may be of further use in studying the modulation of secondary bile acid formation, a possible risk factor in colorectal carcinogenesis.

Survival of Aujeszky's disease virus in slurry at various temperatures.Survival of Aujeszky's disease virus in pig slurry was investigated during anaerobic storage at 5, 20, 35, 40, 45, 50 and 55 degrees C using 100-ml laboratory models simulating the conditions in slurry tanks during winter and summer seasons and during anaerobic digestion in batch reactors. The inactivation rate was found to increase with increasing temperature. Virus was inactivated at 5 and 20 degrees C in 15 weeks and 2 weeks, respectively. At 35 degrees C (mesophilic conditions) the virus was inactivated in 5 hours and at 55 degrees C (thermophilic conditions) no virus could be detected after 10 minutes.

A model of bacterial-antimicrobial interactions: the case of oropharyngeal and gastrointestinal microflora.The normal human oropharyngeal and gastrointestinal microflora is a complex ecosystem in a symbiotic relationship with the host. The microflora helps to prevent invasion of pathogens and participates in several metabolic processes. On the other hand, under certain conditions members of the normal microflora can cause serious infections. Administration of antimicrobial agents may cause severe alterations in the normal microflora. Suppression of the anaerobic flora has been associated with decreased colonization resistance, i.e. the resistance of the normal host to the implantation of exogenous microorganisms.

Avoiding digester imbalance through real-time expert system control of dilution rate.Process control of anaerobic digesters is a particularly challenging problem because of the diversity of possible causes that can lead to digester imbalance. Conventional control schemes can fail in consequence of a reversal in the sign of the steady-state gain caused by some type of disturbance. In this work we present an expert system approach that takes into account the particularity of this process. The developed algorithm is demonstrated to compensate successfully for changes in the digester feed medium when simulated against a model for a continuous anaerobic digester.

Kinetic investigation and mathematical modeling of methanogenesis of glucose.The kinetic regularities of anaerobic conversion of glucose, and intermediates of its decomposition (ethanol, butyrate, and acetate) by a microbial methanogenic association from anaerobic digester were investigated. Kinetic scheme for conversion of glucose is suggested, and the mathematical model based on the scheme is evolved. The model includes growth and metabolism of three kinds of microorganisms--acid producents, and acetate- and hydrogen-utilizing methane producents; of cell lysis with consequent fermentation of "died biomass" to acetate, hydrogen, and carbon dioxide; of induction and repression of the enzyme responsible for decomposition of butyrate, and for a number of regulations depending on the concentrations of intermediates in glucose metabolism. The values of parameters of the model have been calculated, sufficiently describing the experimental regularities. The numerical experiments have enabled us to reveal and describe the principal regulating factors of glucose methanogenesis.

Intestinal flora of patients with rheumatoid arthritis: induction of chronic arthritis in rats by cell wall fragments from isolated Eubacterium aerofaciens strains.The composition of the obligate anaerobic intestinal flora of patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) differed from that of healthy subjects (HS). Total numbers of aerobes as well as anaerobic coccoid rods were found elevated when compared with HS. Eubacterium species were found in all stool samples of both groups; Bifidobacterium species were present in seven (RA) and eight (HS) out of 10 subjects. From the flora of two RA patients and two HS Eubacterium species were isolated and identified. Cell wall fragments from four E. aerofaciens strains (two from RA, two from HS) were tested for arthritis induction in rats. All four strains induced chronic arthritis which was histologically confirmed. We concluded that in the normal intestinal flora of RA patients Eubacterium species are present in high numbers (i.e. greater than 10(9)/g faeces); cell walls from isolated E. aerofaciens strains had arthropathic properties.

Mechanisms and experimental and epidemiological evidence relating dietary fibre (non-starch polysaccharides) and starch to protection against large bowel cancer.The cause of human colo-rectal cancer is unknown, although international and racial comparisons suggest that diet may be important. Within populations, risk of cancer is also affected by genetic factors which remain to be elucidated. Dietary fibre and NSP consumption is not always high in populations at low risk of colo-rectal cancer, but rates are fast increasing with westernization (and meat and fat consumption) in Japan. The suggestion that dietary fibre is protective in colo-rectal cancer is based on the fact that cereal fibre from bran increases faecal weight, dilutes large intestinal contents, and speeds up transit time. In animal models, bran reduces the number of tumours induced by chemical carcinogens, and cellulose may have a similar effect. The faeces of some individuals contain mutagens, some of which have been identified as fecapentaenes and heterocyclic amines. Bran reduces faecal mutagenicity, although the mutagen concerned is unknown. Most dietary fibre is fermented in the large gut by anaerobic bacteria and little remains in faecal matter. Recent observations have shown that substantial amounts of starch survive digestion in the small bowel and are available also for fermentation in the large gut. The metabolic consequences of fermentation may be important in carcinogenesis via altered N metabolism, SCFA production, and pH reduction. Methane is also produced in some individuals, but, contrary to previous findings, is not a risk factor for large bowel cancer. Starch appears to be beneficial as a substrate for fermentation because yields of the SCFA butyrate are increased both in vitro and in vivo. Butyrate is an energy substrate for the colonic mucosa and an anti-proliferative and differentiating agent in cell culture lines. Possible mechanisms whereby starch and NSP may protect against colo-rectal cancer, therefore, exist. The majority of individual case-control epidemiological studies suggest that fibre-containing foods are protective in colo-rectal cancer, although this effect is largely due to vegetable, rather than cereal, consumption. Case-control studies of diet and large bowel cancer may, however, reflect the effect rather than the cause of the disease, so that confirmation of the possible protective effects of starch and NSP is needed from accurate prospective studies both of diet and associated risk factors.

Effects of an enteric anaerobic bacterial culture supernatant and deoxycholate on intestinal calcium absorption and disaccharidase activity.Fifty two strains of anaerobic bacteria isolated from the upper gut of patients with small intestinal bacterial overgrowth were screened for phospholipase activity. Bacteroides melaninogenicus spp intermedius had the greatest activity. The effects of culture supernatants of this organism and deoxycholate on intestinal calcium absorption and disaccharidase activity were studied using a rat closed loop model. The supernatant decreased the in vitro uptake of calcium by 15% (p less than 0.001). Deoxycholate reduced calcium uptake by 16% (p less than 0.001). Combined culture supernatant and deoxycholate reduced calcium uptake by 39% (p less than 0.001) suggesting a potentiation of supernatant activity by deoxycholate. Culture supernatant and deoxycholate, both alone and combined, significantly reduced lactase, sucrase, and maltase activity. Electron microscopic evidence showed degeneration of microvilli, disruption of mitochondrial structure, and swelling of the endoplasmic reticulum after exposure of the intestinal loops to the supernatant or deoxycholate.

Isolation and structural elucidation of biotransformation products from acarbose.Following oral administration the a-glucosidase inhibitor acarbose (O-4,6-dideoxy-4-[[(1S,4R,5S,6S)-4,5,6-trihydroxy-3-(hydroxymethyl) -2-cyclohexen-1-yl]amino]-a-D-glucopyranosyl-(1----4)-O-a-D-glu copyranosyl-(1----4)-D-glucopyranose, Bay g 5421) is degraded by digestive enzymes and/or intestinal microorganism. The effect of anaerobic intestinal bacteria can be studied in an in vitro model which involves the incubation of acarbose with human or animal intestinal flora. Acarbose and nine biotransformation products can be isolated from the incubation mixture. These products were identified by nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectrometry as so-called component 2 (loss of the terminal glucose), component 1 (loss of both glucose rings), hexose homologues of acarbose and component 2, methyl homologues of acarbose, butyric acid ester of component 2, basic disaccharide (loss of the cyclitol ring of component 2), delta-aminovaleric acid and gamma-aminobutyric acid. Following oral administration of [14C]-acarbose to healthy volunteers, 35% of the radioactivity was excreted in the form of at least 13 metabolites in the urine. Three of the metabolites were isolated by Craig countercurrent distribution and ion-pair HPLC and characterized by virtue of their nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectra as derivatives of 4-methylpyrogallol. Two were shown to be monomethylether-monosulphates while the third was a monosulphate-monoglucuronide. The synthesis of ten reference substances and the comparison of HPLC and UV data clearly indicated that the majority of the non-isolated metabolites were also 4-methylpyrogallol derivatives. The peculiarities of the nuclear magnetic resonance and mass spectra of this type of compound are discussed.

Hepatic protein synthesis in a modified septic rat model.The aim of this study was to develop a reproducible and sustained sepsis model in rats, lasting 3-4 days and characterized by appropriate metabolic changes, including increased hepatic protein synthesis, consistent with an acute-phase response. The rat cecal ligation and puncture (CLP) model was modified by decreasing the size and number of cecal punctures and increasing fluid resuscitation, which resulted in a 60% survival rate at 96 hr compared to 20% for standard CLP. Cultures of blood and peritoneal fluid 96 hr following induction of sepsis were positive in all septic animals with a mixed aerobic and anaerobic flora but with predominant growth of Escherichia coli. Septic rats demonstrated increased serum lactate levels and leukocytosis, while serum glucose and resting energy expenditure were not different from controls. Hepatic protein synthesis, measured in vivo by flooding dose technique, was increased by 74% in septic animals. Synthesis of the acute-phase proteins alpha 1-acid glycoprotein, complement component C3, and transferrin, measured by incorporation of [14C]leucine into proteins during a 120-min isolated liver perfusion, was increased twofold in septic animals. The present modified CLP model in rats may be useful in studies on the regulation of acute-phase protein synthesis during prolonged sepsis and in experiments aimed at modulating the septic response in liver by different treatments.

Chronic arthritis induced in rats by cell wall fragments of Eubacterium species from the human intestinal flora.To investigate arthritis-inducing properties of Eubacterium species, which are major residents of the human intestinal flora, cell wall fragments (CWF) of several Eubacterium strains were prepared and tested in an animal model. After a single intraperitoneal injection in the rat, CWF of E. aerofaciens, E. contortum, and E. lentum induced a chronic polyarthritis. E. limosum and E. tortuosum CWF induced an acute self-limiting joint inflammation, whereas E. rectale CWF failed to do so. The rhamnose contents of the isolated CWF were not related to their arthritis-inducing properties. Paradoxically, the sensitivity of CWF to lysozyme digestion, which is regarded as a parameter for the clearance of CWF in tissues, appeared to be positively correlated with the ability of Eubacterium CWF to induce chronic joint inflammation. Our findings show the diversity in arthritis-inducing properties among different species of the anaerobic genus Eubacterium and underline the importance of the anaerobic intestinal flora in the induction of joint inflammation.

The significance of timing of metronidazole prophylaxis and addition of fosfomycin in colorectal surgery. An experimental study in rats.A novel approach to antibiotic prophylaxis in colonic surgery, suggested by our previous clinical experience, was experimentally tested. Intravenous administration of metronidazole or fosfomycin at greater than or equal to 4 hours before surgery effectively prevented lethal infectious complications, whereas metronidazole prophylaxis begun at induction of anaesthesia proved to be much less efficacious (4% and 43% deaths vs. 50% among controls, p less than 0.001 and p greater than 0.7, respectively). The in vivo efficacy of antibiotic prophylaxis correlated better with mucosal counts of Clostridium and Bacteroides than with luminal counts of aerobic or anaerobic bacteria. Earlier initiation of intravenous metronidazole prophylaxis thus markedly increased its in vivo efficacy, apparently due to preoperative mucosal suppression of endogenous potential pathogens. This 'early timing' approach to systemic prophylaxis against infection in abdominal surgery warrants further evaluation both for other antibiotics and clinically.

Infectivity of eggs of Taenia taeniaeformis after anaerobic digestion of sewage sludge--a possible model for Taenia saginata egg resistance.

Effect of ampicillin-induced alterations in murine intestinal microbiota on the survival and competition of environmentally released pseudomonads.The environmental release of genetically altered microorganisms has prompted the investigation of their potential health effects by the employment of other-than-human models. Although direct health effects are addressed, this investigation examines primarily some potential indirect health effects associated with environmentally released microorganisms. Indirect effects examined include colonization of the gastrointestinal tract, competition with the resident microbiota, and translocation of the dosed microorganisms to other organs. Pseudomonads used in this study were isolated from a commercial product marketed for environmental PCB degradation. When mice were dosed by gavage with approximately 10(9) ampicillin-resistant pseudomonads, an increase in recovery from the intestinal tract, as compared to untreated animals, was observed 48 hr after dosing. Intestinal survival of Pseudomonas aeruginosa strain BC16 was enhanced 1000-fold and that of P. maltophilia strain BC6, 10-fold. Strains BC17 and BC18 were unaffected. Ampicillin treatment had a significant effect on the relative number of microbiota in the intestine, by selecting primarily for the facultative species. The lactose-fermenting enterobacteria, obligately anaerobic predominantly Gram-negative rods, and total aerobic and anaerobic populations were monitored in the presence and absence of the PCB-degrading pseudomonad. P. aeruginosa strain BC17 and P. maltophilia strain BC6 had a dose effect (p less than 0.05) on the total aerobic and anaerobic populations as well as the lactose-fermenting enterobacteria. These results are similar to those for the mouse isolate control, strain PAMG. P. aeruginosa strain BC18 had a dose effect (p less than 0.05) on the total anaerobic population, including the obligately anaerobic Gram-negative bacilli. No translocation of the dosed strains to the liver, spleen, or lung was observed 48 hr after dosing.

Role of lipid in the electron transfer between NADPH-cytochrome P-450 reductase and cytochrome P-450 from mammalian liver cells.1. The anaerobic NADPH-reduction of the isozymes cytochrome P-450 LM2 and LM4 was used as a functional tool to study the component interaction in reconstituted monooxygenase systems in dependence on different phospholipids. 2. The isozymes were shown to exhibit similar lipid interaction. The lipids generally favour a catalytically active 1:1 complex formation between reductase and cytochrome P-450 as the rate-determining unit in electron transfer. 3. The cytochrome P-450 reduction proceeds in a biphasic reaction. In dilauroyl phosphatidylcholine (DLPC)-reconstituted systems the amount of the fast reduction psi 1 is stoichiometrically limited by the reductase in deficit: psi 1 corresponds to the 1:1 complex formation capability of the reductase. 4. In vesicle-reconstituted systems an 'overstoichiometric' reductase cycling is observed which gives rise to a significantly increased amount of fast reduction psi 1. Reductase cycling is proposed to occur in protein clusters of cytochrome P-450 and reductase in deficit. 5. The dissociation constant KRP of the functionally active reductase-cytochrome P-450 complex has been determined by means of the amount of psi 1 (DPLC) and the rate constant kapp 1 (vesicles) of the fast reduction as a measure of the complex formation in dependence on the protein molar ratio. Taking into account the actual protein concentration in the vesicular lipid phase, KRP in vesicles has been calculated to be about 3 orders of magnitude increased in comparison to DLPC-reconstituted systems. 6. Vmax data reveal almost the same catalytic activity of both reconstitution modes, which justifies DLPC-reconstitution in model investigations. The vesicle-specific increased accumulation of reduced cytochrome P-450 in the steady state as originated by reductase cycling may offer the physiological advantage of an increased capacity of cytochrome P-450 for synergistic substrate conversion via cytochrome b5.

Reductive metabolism and DNA binding of misonidazole.Misonidazole (1-(2-nitro-1-imidazolyl)-3-methoxy-2-propanol) is an experimental anticancer drug. Reductive metabolism is thought to be important for the cytotoxicity of misonidazole. In this study, the DNA binding of misonidazole was examined after chemical and enzymatic reduction. Under anaerobic conditions, both rat liver microsomes and cytosol catalyzed the reductive metabolism and DNA binding of misonidazole. The misonidazole utilized in these studies was radiolabeled on the side chain. The adduct(s) formed was too unstable for structural analysis. Little or no metabolism of misonidazole was detected in aerobic incubations. Likewise, very little DNA binding occurred in the presence of oxygen. Xanthine oxidase, a model nitroreductase, also was capable of catalyzing the DNA binding of misonidazole. However, unlike the xanthine oxidase catalyzed DNA binding of carcinogenic nitropolycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, the DNA binding of misonidazole was not increased at slightly acidic pH. The putative reactive intermediate, the N-hydroxylamine, was synthesized by zinc reduction of misonidazole. The DNA binding of the N-hydroxylamine derivative increased with increasing pH. The observed pH dependence of the reactions with DNA is similar to other heterocyclic N-hydroxylamines, but is in contrast to the reactivity of a number of aromatic N-hydroxylamines.

Increase in colonic methanogens and total anaerobes in aging rats.Methanogens are present in the colons of our local Wistar rat colony. We studied the changes in concentrations of their fecal methanogenic and nonmethanogenic bacteria with age as a model of the development of these communities in humans. We found that the predominant methanogen in the rats is a Methanobrevibacter species. The log of the concentration of total anaerobes increased from 9.8/g (dry weight) at 3.0 weeks of age (shortly after weaning) to 10.7/g (dry weight) at 96 weeks (shortly before the end of the life span). In contrast, the log concentration of methanogens increased from 5.5 to 9/g (dry weight) during the same time period. Therefore, methanogens increased as a percentage of the total anaerobes from 0.005% at 3.0 weeks to 2.0% at 96 weeks. About 12 doublings of the methanogenic population and 3.3 doublings of the nonmethanogenic population took place from weaning until death. The slow increase in the ratio of methanogens to total anaerobes with age followed the same pattern in cecal contents as found in feces. There were no relationships between animal weights or fecal outputs and the increase in total anaerobe and methanogen concentrations in feces. A possible explanation for the slow increase in the Methanobrevibacter species in Wistar rats with age is a gradual shifting of the use of electrons from the reduction of CO2 to acetate by acetogens to the reduction of CO2 to CH4. The results provide the first evidence for an age-related change in the nonmethanogenic bacteria of the colon and supporting microbiological evidence for physiological studies that have shown age-related increases in colonic methane production in humans.

Cyanide toxicity in hepatocytes under aerobic and anaerobic conditions.The effect of cyanide on cell viability and mitochondrial function was studied in hepatocytes exposed to air or argon. Cells were more susceptible to cyanide toxicity under air than under argon. Analysis of the disposition of cyanide showed that the difference in susceptibility to KCN was not due to O2-dependent differences in cyanide metabolism or elimination. Studies of mitochondrial function revealed that cyanide under aerobic conditions resulted in substantial swelling of the mitochondria, which corresponded to a matrix loading of phosphate. In addition, cyanide caused a loss of the mitochondrial protonmotive force. This was in contrast to the results for cells exposed to 30 min of anoxia alone in which there was no loss of mitochondrial delta pH, no detectable change in mitochondrial volume, and little matrix loading of phosphate. These results show that at least some of the protective mechanisms elicited by anoxia (B. S. Andersson, T. Y. Aw, and D. P. Jones. Am. J. Physiol. 252 (Cell Physiol. 21): C349-C355, 1987) are not elicited by cyanide alone. Thus cyanide under aerobic conditions does not provide a completely valid model for simple anoxia. Moreover, the results suggest that the molecular sensor necessary to signal suppression of metabolic and transport functions during neahypoxia is dependent on O2 and is neither stimulated nor antagonized by KCN.

Swelling, reductive stress, and cell death during chemical hypoxia in hepatocytes.In rat hepatocytes, we examined the relationship between cell volume, bleb formation, and loss of cell viability during chemical hypoxia with KCN plus iodoacetic acid. In hypotonic media (150-200 mosmol/kgH2O), cells swelled to a greater extent during chemical hypoxia than in isotonic media, but rates of cell killing were identical. Sucrose (300 mM) added to isotonic media prevented early cell swelling but actually accelerated cell killing. In contrast, mannitol (300 mM) improved cell survival but did not prevent cell swelling. Bleb formation occurred regardless of buffer tonicity. The antioxidants desferrioxamine and cyanidanol but not superoxide dismutase +/- catalase delayed lethal cell injury. Cell killing was greater during aerobic compared with anaerobic chemical hypoxia. Hydroperoxide formation was measured using a dichlorofluorescin assay and was accelerated during aerobic but not anaerobic chemical hypoxia. The results indicate that cell swelling is not the driving force for bleb formation or lethal cell injury. We conclude that "reductive stress" caused by respiratory inhibition favors formation of toxic oxygen species and may contribute to lethal cell injury during intermittent or incomplete oxygen deprivation.

Serotonin and tryptamine metabolism in the acute hepatic failure model: changes in tryptophan and its metabolites in the liver, brain and kidney.When heat-killed Propionibacterium acnes, a gram-positive anaerobe, is intravenously injected into mice followed by an intravenous injection of gram-negative lipopolysaccharide (LPS) 7 days later, most of the mice die of massive hepatic cell necrosis within 24 hours of LPS injection. Using this experimental model, acute hepatic failure was induced in mice, and the tryptophan metabolism in the liver, brain and kidney was studied. As a result, the tryptophan level was remarkably high in all three organs, and the metabolism of both the tryptamine pathway and serotonin pathway was induced. However, in the brain, the tryptamine metabolism was more induced compared to the serotonin, suggesting that the metabolites of tryptamine, may be involved in hepatic encephalopathy.

Multi-organ damage resulting from experimental faecal peritonitis.1. Using specific-pathogen-free New Zealand White rabbits, we have compared the effects of faecal peritonitis over a period of 5 h in eight test animals with eight controls in which a sham operation was performed. 2. There was morphological damage to lungs, liver and spleen of test animals. Lung capillaries and sinusoids of the liver showed occlusion by cell debris and leucocytes, with endothelial damage. The lungs also showed alveolar epithelial disruption, basement membrane exposure and type II pneumocytes lacking lamellar bodies. In the liver there was fibrin deposition and swollen Kupffer cells. The spleen showed degranulating neutrophils, fibrin deposits, platelet aggregates and activated macrophages, with no damage to the endothelium. 3. There was no morphological damage to the kidney or heart of test animals or to any organs of sham-operated animals. 4. There were mixed anaerobes and aerobes in faecal material used to induce peritonitis. Cultures of liver, spleen and kidney isolated four different types of micro-organisms. Blood cultures showed two types of micro-organisms. Cultures of lung and heart showed one type of micro-organism. 5. The presence of micro-organisms in an organ could not be correlated with the degree of histological damage to that organ. 6. In test animals an early significant reduction in circulating leucocytes and platelets was sustained for the duration of the experiment with significant diffuse intravascular coagulation. 7. There was no change in test animal neutrophil adhesiveness until 120 min, when significant reduction was observed. 8. Serum phospholipase A2 (EC 3.1.1.4) activity in the test group showed a threefold increase at 300 min.

Control of interspecies electron transfer flow during anaerobic digestion: dynamic diffusion reaction models for hydrogen gas transfer in microbial flocs.Dynamic reaction diffusion models were used to analyze the consequences of aggregation for syntrophic reactions in methanogenic ecosystems. Flocs from a whey digestor were used to measure all model parameters under the in situ conditions of a particular defined biological system. Fermentation simulations without adjustable parameters could precisely predict the kinetics of H(2) gas production of digestor flocs during syntrophic methanogenesis from ethanol. The results demonstrated a kinetic compartmentalization of H(2) metabolism inside the flocs. The interspecies electron transfer reaction was mildly diffusion controlled. The H(2) gas profiles across the flocs showed high H (2) concentrations inside the flocs at any time. Simulations of the syntrophic metabolism at low substrate concentrations such as in digestors or sediments showed that it is impossible to achieve high H(2) gas turnovers at simultaneously low steady-state H(2) concentrations. This showed a mechanistic contradiction in the concept of postulated low H(2) microenvironments for the anaerobic digestion process. The results of the computer experiments support the conclusion that syntrophic H(2) production may only be a side reaction of H(2) independent interspecies electron transfer in methanogenic ecosystems.

Polychlorinated biphenyl-degrading pseudomonads: survival in mouse intestines and competition with normal flora.Although naturally occurring and mutant organisms, historically, have been released into the environment for various purposes, health concerns associated with the release of microorganisms have recently resurfaced. Federal agencies have been given the task of reassuring society that any released organisms are not likely to produce adverse health effects. Methods, therefore, for evaluating the potential health effects due to environmental release of mutant and genetically engineered microorganisms are under investigation. A mouse model was developed that examines morbidity, mortality, and more indirect effects such as colonization potential of the intestinal tract, as well as competition with and alteration of the intestinal microbiota populations. The Pseudomonas spp. used in this study were isolated from a commercial product and used for degrading polychlorinated biphenyls. Mice were dosed individually with 10(3), 10(6), and 10(9) colony-forming units of each microorganism. At specific time intervals the intestines were removed and examined for the presence of the dosed microorganism. At the two higher doses, 10(6) and 10(9) colony-forming units, P. maltophilia strain BC6 and two P. aeruginosa strains, BC16 and BC18, were recoverable 48 h after dosing. The naturally occurring P. aeruginosa strain, PAMG, isolated from a mouse intestinal homogenate produced a similar response. Statistical analysis indicated that in some of the dosed animals, an alteration in the distribution of normal intestinal microflora occurred. Pseudomonas maltophilia strain BC6 and P. aeruginosa strains BC16 and BC17 caused a change in the obligately anaerobic predominantly gram-negative rod counts, and P. aeruginosa strain BC17 produced a dose effect on the total anaerobic count at the 10% confidence level. The total aerobic count was unaffected by the presence of the dosed pseudomonads.

Xenon handling in the liver: red cell capacity effect.Xenon, despite its lack of chemical reactivity, associates preferentially with red cells in blood. To characterize the effect of this and the nature of xenon-tissue interaction in the liver, multiple indicator dilution studies were performed in the anesthetized normal dog through portal vein injection and hepatic vein collection of anaerobic blood samples. Two experimental runs were carried out in each animal, one at the prevailing hematocrit and the other at reduced hematocrit after bleeding and replacement with dextran. For comparison, the injection mixtures contained labeled red blood cells (a vascular reference), sucrose (an interstitial space reference), and labeled water (which freely enters liver cells), as well as labeled xenon. At the higher hematocrit, the labeled xenon curves generally rose earlier, peaked higher, and decayed more quickly than the labeled water curve; at the lower hematocrit, the xenon curve was delayed and diminished in magnitude in relation to the labeled water curves. Analysis of the curve shapes indicated that xenon, like labeled sucrose and water, underwent delayed wave flow-limited distribution. With knowledge of the red cell plasma partition coefficient (2.89 ml/ml), it was possible to both account for the change in form of the xenon curves with hematocrit and to use the data to estimate the liver cell tissue plasma xenon partition coefficient. Values averaged 1.93 ml/ml liver space, or 1.79 ml/g, and did not change significantly from first to second runs. Theoretical analysis indicated that flow cannot be estimated from xenon downslopes.

Nitrofurantoin-stimulated superoxide production by channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) hepatic microsomal and soluble fractions.Nitroaromatic compounds, which frequently contaminate the environment, are known to be reduced to corresponding aromatic amines by fish as well as mammals under anaerobic conditions. Although amine products are not generally formed aerobically, "nitroreductase"-mediated redox cycling of nitroaromatics may occur under these conditions, leading to enhanced production of a potentially toxic oxygen species, superoxide (O-2). In this study, we have investigated the ability of channel catfish (Ictalurus punctatus) hepatic microsomal and soluble fractions to stimulate O-2) production upon exposure to a model redox cycling nitroaromatic compound, nitrofurantoin (NF). Two assays for O-2 production, cytochrome c reduction and cyanide-insensitive oxygen consumption, were stimulated by NF exposure to both hepatic fractions. These reactions were partially inhibited by superoxide dismutase (SOD), and by SOD and catalase in the oxygen consumption assay, providing specific evidence for the involvement of O-2 in the stimulatory effect by NF. Furthermore, results of cofactor requirement and inhibition studies suggest that NF enhancement of O-2 production was mediated by NADPH-cytochrome P-450 (c) reductase in the microsomal fraction and xanthine oxidase in the soluble fraction. These findings comprehensively suggest that the in vitro stimulation of O-2 production by nitroaromatics as indicated in mammals may also occur in fish and, therefore, suggests a similar potential for oxyradical-mediated toxicities in these species.

An anaerobic continuous-flow culture model of interactions between intestinal microflora and Candida albicans.The finding by earlier workers that Escherichia coli suppressed the growth of Candida albicans in vitro or in gnotobiotic mice has led to numerous, erroneous conclusions regarding the identity of the organisms and mechanisms responsible for the suppression of Candida in the gut. This is due, in part, to the fact that nearly all studies to date have not reflected interactions as they occur in the intestinal tract. This paper describes a series of experiments that establish that an anaerobic continuous-flow (CF) culture model of the ecology of the large intestinal flora reproduces interactions between bacteria and Candida as they occur in the large intestine. This was determined in the following ways. (i) Bacterial counts in CF cultures of conventional mouse cecal flora or human fecal flora closely resembled that found in the mouse intestine and human feces. (ii) Dense layers of bacterial growth that formed on the glass walls of the CF culture vessels resembled bacterial populations that colonize intestinal mucosa. (iii) Total and individual levels of certain metabolic end-products of the predominant anaerobic bacterial flora present in CF cultures coincided with those found in the large intestine of conventional mice or human feces used to establish the CF cultures. (iv) C. albicans was eliminated from CF cultures of mouse cecal flora at a rate similar to that of untreated experimental animals. (v) Contents of CF cultures fed to antibiotic-treated mice redressed several cecal abnormalities, and suppressed Candida populations to levels found in conventional animals. Thus, a number of complex ecological mechanisms were maintained in CF cultures which normally control Candida populations in the large intestine. It is suggested, therefore, that the CF culture model should help to further define the mechanisms which control C. albicans and other fungi in the intestinal tract, as well as define which components of the indigenous microflora are responsible for suppression of Candida in the gut.

Stratified mixed-culture biofilm model for anaerobic digestion.Development of a novel two-layer anaerobic biofilm model is based on substrate utilization kinetics and mass transport. The model is applied to steady-state conditions for a fixed-film anaerobic reactor. The microbial film is considered to consist of two distinct biofilm layers, one adjacent to the second, with an acidogenic bacteria biofilm forming the outer layer and a methanogenic film the inner one. The model assumes that sugars are only metabolized by the first layer and converted into volatile fatty acids (VFA), while fatty acids are taken up only by the inner layer. The model is able to predict both substrate flux net uptake and methane production for steady-state conditions. The results of modeling agree with methane production experimental data published elsewhere. Further, the model shows why layered fixed-film reactors can withstand high and inhibitory concentrations of volatile fatty acids as well as severe overloading without failure.

Mechanism of reductive activation of a 5-nitroimidazole by flavoproteins: model studies with dithionite.The flavoprotein nitroreductases NADPH:cytochrome P-450 reductase and xanthine oxidase catalyzed the cofactor-dependent anaerobic nitro group reduction and covalent binding to protein sulfhydryl groups of the 5-nitroimidazole substrate ronidazole [1-methyl-5-nitroimidazole-2-yl)-methyl carbamate). Studies with variously radiolabeled ronidazole molecules demonstrated that the imidazole ring was intact while greater than 80% of the C-4 3H and 2-carbamoyl group were lost from the covalently bound product. The stoichiometry of cofactor consumption during the enzyme-catalyzed reduction of the substrate could not be determined, so a model nitroreductase system which utilized dithionite as the reductant and agarose-immobilized cysteine as the target for alkylation was developed. Two moles of dithionite was consumed per mole of substrate for maximal reduction of uv absorbance due to the nitro group, for maximal release of C-4 3H, and for maximal covalent binding to agarose-immobilized cysteine. These results indicate that four electrons are required for the reductive activation of the substrate, consistent with formation of a hydroxylamine reactive intermediate. Covalent binding of variously radiolabeled substrate molecules after dithionite reduction exhibited the same labeling pattern as flavoprotein-catalyzed covalent binding, suggesting that covalent binding is mediated by the same species in both chemical and biological systems. The data are consistent with a mechanism where the substrate undergoes four-electron reduction to form a hydroxylamine, which is susceptible to nucleophilic attack at C-4. When water attacks C-4, the 2-carbamoyl group can eliminate to form a Michael-like acceptor which adds thiols at the 2-methylene position.

A further examination of heavy metal inhibition of gas production by thermophilic anaerobic sludges.Mesophilic anaerobic digestion is a well established method for stabilising municipal sewage sludges. However, digestion in the thermophilic range is very restricted. The main reason for this has been the imbalance between the energy produced in the form of biogas and the energy required to maintain the temperature of a thermophilic system. It has been shown recently that an energy-positive process can be achieved using thickened sludges as the feedstock and, therefore, thermophilic digestion must be considered as a potentially attractive process for sludge stabilisation. However, before it can properly be offered as an alternative technology, the effect of toxic materials must be known. Currently, there is little information about the effect that known toxic agents can have on the microbial flora of a thermophilic sludge. This paper examines the toxicity (measured in terms of gas inhibition) of heavy metals, both individually and in combinations, on the sludge produced by a laboratory-scale digester (10 litres) operating at 55 degrees C with a solids retention time of 20 days. The metals used were zinc, lead, nickel, copper and cadmium and the gas inhibition studies were done in small (500 ml) flasks so that the gas production could be monitored precisely. Statistical analysis of the results showed that a model, developed previously to describe the toxicity of a range of compounds to mesophilic systems, was applicable to heavy metals and thermophilic sludges.

Monobacterial and mixed bacterial plaques of Streptococcus mutans and Veillonella alcalescens in an artificial mouth: development, metabolism, and effect on human dental enamel.To gain greater understanding of the role of Streptococcus mutans and Veillonella in the caries process, studies of both aerobically and anaerobically grown plaques of S. mutans C67-1 and V. alcalescens V-1 on human enamel slabs were carried out in an artificial mouth. Plaque development, acid production, and demineralization were measured. Early plaque development of monobacterial and mixed bacterial plaques started from randomly adhering cells on day 1 to confluent multilayered microcolonies on day 4. Differences were observed in viable cell counts, total cell mass, and in acid production. In most cases CFU, DNA and acid production were higher in the mixed bacterial plaque, especially in the anaerobic mixed plaque. Lactic acid was the predominant acid in all cases following the supply of sucrose to the plaque. No decisive role could be found for acetic, formic, and propionic acid. No inhibition of demineralization was observed in the enamel slabs inoculated with both aerobic and anaerobic mixed plaques. Demineralization ranged from the more classical picture of lesion development in the aerobic monobacterial plaque-treated samples to an aggressive etching of the enamel surface in the anaerobically mixed treated slabs.

Covalent binding of 4-nitrobenzyl mercaptan S-sulfate to the sulfhydryl groups of hepatic cytosolic proteins and bovine serum albumin with mixed disulfide bond formation.4-Nitrobenzyl [35S]mercaptan S-sulfonic acid ([35S]NBM S-sulfate), a new type of reactive metabolite of the thiol [35S]NBM in rat liver cytosol fortified with 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate, bound rapidly and covalently at pH 7.4 and 37 degrees C to the sulfhydryl groups of rat liver cytosolic proteins with formation of disulfide bonds. From the radioactive proteins was isolated and identified the sole amino acid adduct, S-([35S]NBM)cysteine, after their acid hydrolysis under the anaerobic conditions. Bovine serum albumin (BSA), a model protein with a single SH group, also reacted readily with radioactive NBM S-sulfate to form a disulfide bond in stoichiometric manner. S-([35S]NBM)-cysteine was also isolated and identified as the sole amino acid adduct from the well-washed, radioactive BSA after the same anaerobic acid hydrolysis. A normal hepatic level of GSH not only retarded the BSA-NBM adduct formation completely, but also detached the radioactivity from BSA by the reduction of the disulfide bond with formation of [35S]NBM and its disulfide. Of twenty-one amino acids examined at pH 7.4 and 37 degrees C, only cysteine reacted with NBM S-sulfate and afforded S-(NBM)cysteine with concomitant formations of S-sulfocysteine, cystine, NBM, and its disulfide.

Intestinal ischemia: treatment by peritoneal lavage with oxygenated perfluorochemical.Though the delivery of elemental oxygen to tissues ravaged by anaerobic infection may be useful, little data exists that suggests that such therapy may benefit ischemic tissue. We report the development of a model to test the question that peritoneal lavage with an oxygen containing solution may favorably influence occlusive intestinal ischemia. Adult Sprague-Dawley rats with Nembutal (sodium pentobarbital) anesthesia underwent midline laparotomy; a microvascular clamp was applied to the superior mesenteric artery (SMA); and an inflow and outflow lavage catheter was placed. Treatment groups included control rats undergoing SMA occlusion only without lavage, rats lavaged with albumin during SMA occlusion (medium control), and rats lavaged during SMA occlusion with oxygenated perfluorochemical FC-47 emulsified in albumin (O2-FC-47). The increase in serum L-lactate following occlusion was used as an index of intestinal injury whether the perfusate was maintained at room temperature (28 degrees C) or body temperature (37 degrees C). Beginning with time O, which corresponded to the time of unclamping, subsequent samples were collected at 15, 30, and 60 minutes after a 30-minute SMA occlusion. Sequential lactates in 13 control rats were 4.18, 4.10, 3.88, and 4.52 mmol/L. Albumin lavaged animals had values at 28 degrees C of 2.23, 1.35, 1.8, and 2.44 mmol/L and values at 37 degrees C of 2.22, 1.40, 2.07, and 3.21 mmol/L, respectively. With O2-FC-47 lavage the respective lactates were 1.89, 1.09, 1.32, and 1.44 mmol/L at 28 degrees C and 2.14, 2.19, 2.50, and 2.1 mmol/L at 37 degrees C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Bile acids with a cyclopropyl-containing side chain. IV. Physicochemical and biological properties of the four diastereoisomers of 3 alpha,7 beta-dihydroxy-22,23-methylene-5 beta-cholan-24-oic acid.To define the influence of the side chain modification on physicochemical and biological properties of bile acids, 3 alpha,7 beta-dihydroxy-22,23-methylene-5 beta-cholan-24-oic acid, a cyclopropyl analog of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) was synthesized in both unconjugated and taurine-conjugated form. The presence of a cyclopropyl ring at C-22, C-23 position introduces chirality generating four diasteroisomers (A, B, C, and D) which greatly differ for the hydrophilicity and critical micellar concentration: A and B are more hydrophilic (K' = 0.21, 0.80 and CMC = 25,20 mM, respectively) than UDCA (K' = 0.95; CMC = 19 mM) while C and D are more hydrophobic and with lower CMC (K' = 1.30, 2.05; CMC = 14, 10 mM, respectively) than UDCA. Differences in these properties are related to the orientation of the C-25 carboxyl which in isomers A and B is oriented toward the back of the steroid body, reducing the continuity of the hydrophobic area. Using the isolated perfused rat liver we found that the isomers inhibited [3H]UDCA uptake differently. Isomer D (noncompetitive) was the most potent (51%) while isomer A (competitive) was the least potent (15%). When infused intravenously to rats, only D isomer and UDCA were quantitatively recovered in bile. They were secreted predominantly as taurine and glycine conjugates. Isomers A, B, C are not conjugated and only partially recovered in bile as unconjugates (less than 15% of the administered dose). The increase in bile flow per unit increase in bile acid secretion induced by isomers A, B, and C, was much greater than that induced by isomer D which is similar to that of UDCA (0.32 +/- 0.04 and 0.22 +/- 0.01, respectively) while it is reduced during infusion of the other isomers. When infused as taurine conjugates they behaved similarly to tauroursodeoxycholic acid. When incubated in anaerobic conditions with human stools only isomer D is partially 7-dehydroxylated (t/2 = 18 hr) even though slower than UDCA (t/2 = 5 hr). The substrate specificity of the taurine conjugated toward cholyglycine hydrolase is very poor, only isomers C and D are partially deconjugated with a kinetics much slower than that of UDCA (10 hr vs. 0.2 hr). By using molecular models it is possible to explain these differences due to the conformation of the side chain that, in the case of isomer D, is quite similar to UDCA. These data are useful to explain the metabolism of dihydroxy bile acids and to design new analogs with enhanced cholelitholytic activity.

Electron transfer from cytochrome b5 to iron and copper complexes.The rates of electron transfer from the tryptic fragment of bovine liver cytochrome b5 to FeIIINTA, FeIIIATP, CuIINTA, CuIIATP, and CuIIHis have been measured by anaerobic stopped-flow techniques. The rates of reduction of the Fe(III) complexes are independent of ionic strength, enhanced at low pH, and slightly inhibited by ZnIINTA. Saturation kinetics are observed with CuIINTA (kappa et = 0.05 s-1, K = 8.6 M-1), CuIIHis (kappa et = 0.2 s-1, K = 2.6 X 10(3) M-1), and CuIIATP (kappa et = 0.6 s-1, K = 4.5 X 10(3) M-1), thereby indicating that binding of Cu(II) to the protein occurs prior to electron transfer. 1H NMR resonances of the three surface histidines and some neighboring residues have been assigned by two-dimensional NMR techniques. NMR titration experiments show unequivocally that CuIINTA binds preferentially at a site near His-26 and Tyr-27.

Role of volatile fatty acids in colonization resistance to Clostridium difficile in gnotobiotic mice.Clostridium difficile is an agent involved in the development of antibiotic-associated pseudomembranous colitis. The purpose of this work was to investigate the role of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) in resistance to colonization by C. difficile by using a gnotobiotic animal model. Accordingly, germfree mice were associated with different hamster flora, and the VFAs in their cecal contents were measured by gas chromatography. The results showed that VFAs were produced mainly by the intestinal flora, especially by the strictly anaerobic bacteria. In these associated mice, the concentrations of acetic, propionic, and butyric acids were higher than those of other acids, but at pH 6.8 the MICs of these three acids in vitro for C. difficile were more than 200 mu eq/ml. In gnotobiotic mice monoassociated with C. difficile and in the isolated ceca of these mice, VFAs did not inhibit the growth of C. difficile. In gnotobiotic mice which were diassociated with C. difficile and C. butyricum and given drinking water with a lactose concentration of 20%, the cecal contents included about the same amount of butyric acid as did those of the monoassociated mice, although the population of C. difficile remained the same. Therefore, it is suggested that VFAs alone cannot inhibit intestinal colonization by C. difficile and that, consequently, other inhibitory mechanisms are also present.

Cecectomy causes long-term reduction of colonization resistance in the mouse gastrointestinal tract.Removal of the cecum from normal mice caused a major perturbation of the microbial ecology of the gastrointestinal tract. There was a permanent reduction in colonization resistance resulting in a 1,000-fold increase in the concentration of facultatively anaerobic coliform bacteria. The animals were significantly more susceptible to peroral challenge by the intestinal pathogen Salmonella enteritidis. Coincident with this increase in coliform counts and susceptibility to salmonellae was a decrease in the numbers of strictly anaerobic fusiform bacteria that dominate the rodent intestinal tract, resulting in reduced levels of acetic, propionic, and butyric acids. Cecectomized mice are likely to be a useful model for study of the interaction between intestinal pathogens and the normal microbiota and for studies of translocation of bacteria into host tissues after loss of colonization resistance.

Cystic fibrosis. Carbohydrate metabolism in CF and in animal models for CF.Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a chronic genetic disease mainly affecting the exocrine glands. Its main clinical symptoms are: abnormal production of mucus which blocks the airways, pancreatic insufficiency and increased sweat electrolytes. In the present investigation a series of enzymes and metabolites--mainly of carbohydrate metabolism--was investigated in biological fluids from CF homozygotes, CF heterozygotes and healthy controls under different conditions. CF homozygotes--and to a lesser degree CF heterozygotes--had increased activity of ribonuclease, and increased concentrations of electrolytes and lactate in their saliva and urine at rest. Saliva of CF patients also had augmented levels of protein. When healthy persons were submitted to anaerobic effort, the activity of ribonuclease and the concentrations of protein, electrolytes and lactate increased in their saliva, and thereby, mimicked the values found in the saliva of cystic fibrosis patients at rest. An abnormal response to a sucrose load was found in both CF-homozygotes and CF-heterozygotes. Greater increase in both glucose and lactate concentrations in the blood as well as a more rapid clearance of these metabolites was observed after the sucrose intake. A possible cause for these findings could be a disturbed carbohydrate metabolism in CF. Therefore, enzymes and metabolites connected to the metabolic pathway of glucose were investigated in CF fibroblasts and in animal models for CF. An increased activity of glycolytic enzymes in CF fibroblast were shown. Similar increases in activities of glycolytic enzymes were found in cells of submandibular glands of rats that were killed in a state of induced metabolic acidosis. These cells also showed increased protein and mucus contents, and elemental changes similar to those observed in fibroblasts of cystic fibrosis patients. Contrary to this, decreased activities of the enzymes of the glycolytic pathway were found in the submandibular gland of chronically reserpinized rats. The end-products of glycolysis, pyruvate and lactate, were also decreased, whereas the concentration of phosphoenolopyruvate and creatinphosphate were increased, possibly causing acidosis in the gland. Thus a disturbed glycolytic pathway in CF cells and a decreased intracellular pH might play an important role in the pathogenesis of this disease.

[Simulation of intestinal microbial overgrowth by continuous culture].By the aid of continuous flow culture of microbial populations it is possible to answer specific micro_ecological questions even under anaerobic conditions. We present some findings from a continuous flow model of human duodenal juice with microbial overgrowth. Germ counts and species were reproducible in a steady state over several days. Metabolic activity was very high. For example, this model allows the in vitro study of therapeutic possibilities against overgrowth syndrome, microbial fermentation of food, metabolism of drugs and the growth of microorganisms on surfaces in gastrointestinal tract.

Evaluation of aztreonam, cefoperazone, latamoxef and ceftazidime in the hamster colitis model.Aztreonam, ceftazidime, cefoperazone and latamoxef (moxalactam) were evaluated in a hamster model for antibiotic-associated colitis. Aztreonam, a novel monocyclic beta-lactam antibiotic specifically directed against aerobic Gram-negative bacteria with limited activity against Gram-positive and anaerobic bacteria did not cause haemorrhagic caecitis and death in hamsters when administered intraperitioneally or orally. Quantitative caecal cultures showed no changes in the anaerobic caecal microflora of hamsters treated intraperitoneally with aztreonam and only a temporary decrease in anaerobic Gram-negative bacilli in hamsters treated orally. Clostridium difficile and its cytotoxin were not present in these animals. Parenteral administration of ceftazidime also did not affect the anaerobic caecal microflora or cause caecitis. However, when given orally, ceftazidime suppressed the anaerobic caecal microflora and a lethal C. difficile-induced caecitis developed. Latamoxef or cefoperazone given parenterally resulted in caecitis and death in five days with marked changes in the anaerobic caecal microflora and C. difficile present in the caecal contents of these animals. The lethal haemorrhagic caecitis observed in this study was indistinguishable from that seen in the clindamycin-induced colitis model in the hamster. The possible correlation of these findings to gastrointestinal disturbances as a complication of antibiotic therapy in humans is discussed.

Reaction of DNA with chemically or enzymatically activated mitomycin C: isolation and structure of the major covalent adduct.The antitumor antibiotic mitomycin C is shown to form a covalent complex with calf thymus DNA under anaerobic conditions in the presence of either NADPH cytochrome c reductase/NADPH, xanthine oxidase/NADH, or the chemical reducing system H2/PtO2. Digestion of the complex with DNase I/snake venom diesterase/alkaline phosphatase yields a single mitomycin deoxyguanosine adduct as the major DNA alkylation product, identified as N2-(2'' beta,7''-diaminomitosen-1'' alpha-yl) 2'-deoxyguanosine (Structure 2). Two minor adducts, 2-5% each of the total adduct pool, are isolated and identified as the 1'' beta stereoisomer of 2 (Structure 3), and 10''-decarbamoyl-2 (Structure 7). The same results were obtained with M13 DNA and poly(dG-dC).poly(dG-dC); however, in the latter case, a minor adduct apparently possessing two deoxyguanosine and one mitomycin unit is isolated. Digestion of the covalent mitomycin-calf thymus DNA complex with nuclease P1 yields four dinucleotide adducts, all of which consist of 2 linked at its 3' end to each of the four possible 5' nucleotides (A, T, G, and C). Upon treatment of each dinucleotide adduct with snake venom diesterase/alkaline phosphatase, 2 is released along with the corresponding free nucleoside. In apparent conflict with the present results, previous reports from another laboratory have indicated that modification of calf thymus DNA by mitomycin C under conditions identical to those described here result in the isolation of three mitomycin C mononucleotide adducts possessing linkages of the drug to N2 and O6 of guanine and N6 of adenine. Evidence is shown suggesting that the latter adducts are actually three of the above four dinucleotide derivatives of 2 obtained independently by us and, thus, all of them in fact possess an identical N2-mitosenylguanine adduct moiety. Model-building studies indicate an excellent fit of the guanine N2-linked drug molecule inside the minor groove of B-DNA with no appreciable distortion of the DNA structure.

The effect of lowering the pH on the composition and metabolism of a community of nine oral bacteria grown in a chemostat.Nine oral bacteria, associated with both healthy and diseased sites in the mouth, were grown at D = 0.05 h-1 (mean generation time 13.9 h) in a glucose-limited chemostat. After an initial period of steady-state growth at pH 7.0, pH control was discontinued. The pH then decreased until it stabilized at pH 4.1 after 9 d (16 generations), while the Eh rose from -165 mV to +160 mV. The lowering in pH resulted in the composition and metabolism of the flora being altered and in increased bacterial aggregation. At pH 7.0, 'Streptococcus mitior', Veillonella alcalescens and S. sanguis were most numerous while at pH 4.1 the counts of all bacteria fell except for Lactobacillus casei, which became predominant. The proportions of S. mutans within the community also increased while S. sanguis was recovered only occasionally and Bacteroides intermedius was not detected below pH 4.6. The survival at pH 4.1 of several other species would not have been predicted from earlier pure culture studies. Relative to pH 7.0, the community growing at pH 4.1 produced more lactic acid, washed cells had a greater glycolytic activity over a wider pH range but amino acid metabolism decreased. In general, when pH control was restored, so were the original patterns of metabolism and bacterial counts, except for B. intermedius, which was still not detected. The inverse relationship between S. sanguis and S. mutans, and the increase in proportions of L. casei and S. mutans during growth in a low pH environment parallel observations made in vivo and suggest that the chemostat can be used as a model for microbial behaviour in dental plaque.

Effect of clindamycin on the ability of a continuous culture of colonic bacteria to ferment carbohydrate.A continuous culture model of the proximal colon was used to study the effect of clindamycin on the ability of colonic bacteria to ferment carbohydrate. Six steady state anaerobic cultures of human faeces, in a medium simulating ileostomy effluent, were treated with 26 micrograms/ml clindamycin. They were paired with six untreated cultures, run under identical conditions. Clindamycin treatment eliminated the anaerobic bacteria, significantly decreased osmolality and the output of volatile fatty acids, particularly propionic acid and increased the residual carbohydrate concentration. Doubling the amount of carbohydrate in the medium increased osmolality and the production of volatile fatty acid, though the response of clindamycin treated cultures was less than that of untreated cultures. Attempts to introduce Clostridium difficile into three pairs of cultures were successful in only two cultures after administration with clindamycin and when a heavy inoculum (10(6)-10(9) organisms) had been used.

Erythropoietin production by fetal mouse liver cells in response to hypoxia and adenylate cyclase stimulation.This study was done to investigate aspects of control of extrarenal erythropoietin (Ep) production. To this end we studied the effects of three stimuli of renal Ep production in the adult, i.e. hypoxia, cobalt, and activation of adenylate cyclase on Ep generation by cultured fetal mouse liver cells. The fetal liver was taken as a model for extrarenal Ep production because this organ is considered the predominant site of extrarenal Ep production. We found that Ep production by the cells increased as the oxygen concentration was decreased in the incubation atmosphere from 20% to 1%. Cobalt (10(-4)-10(-5) M) had no effect on Ep production. Activation of adenylate cyclase by forskolin (10(-5) M) or isoproterenol (10(-5) M) greatly enhanced Ep production. These findings indicate that the Ep-stimulating effect of cobalt is specific for the kidney. However, oxygen depletion and activation of adenylate cyclase seem to be more general stimuli in Ep-producing cells. Furthermore we found that Ep production in hypoxia correlated with lactate formation in the cultured liver cells. This finding suggests that Ep production in fetal livers under hypoxic conditions parallels the shift from aerobic to anaerobic cellular energy metabolism.

Discovery and development of the monobactams.A novel procedure designed to detect naturally occurring beta-lactam-containing molecules led to isolation of the monobactams - structurally unique, bacterially produced, monocyclic beta-lactam antibiotics. Although none of these monobactams exhibited impressive antimicrobial activity, side-chain variation - as with the penicillins and cephalosporins - resulted in potently active compounds. Aztreonam was chosen from hundreds of compounds for extended laboratory studies. In addition to a unique chemical structure, aztreonam has biologic properties that are unique in comparison with those of the classical penicillins and cephalosporins. Aztreonam is relatively inactive against gram-positive bacteria and anaerobes but is extremely effective against aerobic gram-negative bacteria, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The drug is highly resistant to enzymatic hydrolysis by beta-lactamases, particularly those known to be mediated by R plasmids, and is a poor inducer of chromosomal beta-lactamases. In the majority of drug combinations tested, aztreonam exhibits additive or synergistic activity. In a series of animal-model infections, the drug showed a high degree of efficacy that was consistent with findings in studies in vitro. In a hamster model for Clostridium difficile-induced pseudomembranous colitis, aztreonam did not induce any significant changes.

The establishment of reproducible, complex communities of oral bacteria in the chemostat using defined inocula.Nine commonly isolated oral bacterial populations were inoculated into a glucose-limited and a glucose-excess (amino acid-limited) chemostat maintained at a constant pH 7.0 and a mean community generation time of 13.9 h. The bacterial populations were Streptococcus mutans ATCC 2-27351, Strep. sanguis NCTC 7865, Strep. mitior EF 186, Actinomyces viscosus WVU 627, Lactobacillus casei AC 413, Neisseria sp. A1078, Veillonella alkalescens ATCC 17745, Bacteroides intermedius T 588 and Fusobacterium nucleatum NCTC 10593. All nine populations became established in the glucose-limited chemostat although Strep. sanguis and Neisseria sp. were present only after a second and third inoculation, respectively. In contrast, even following repeated inoculations, Strep. mutans, B. intermedius and Neisseria sp. could not be maintained under glucose-excess conditions. A more extensive pattern of fermentation products and amino acid catabolism occurred under glucose-limited growth; this simultaneous utilization of mixed substrates also contributed to the higher yields (Y molar glucose) and greater species diversity of these communities. Microscopic and biochemical evidence suggested that cell-to-cell interactions and food chains were occurring among community members. To compare the reproductibility of this system, communities were established on three occasions under glucose-limitation and twice under glucose-excess conditions. The bacterial composition of the steady-state communities and their metabolic behaviour were similar when grown under identical conditions but varied in a consistent manner according to the nutrient responsible for limiting growth. Although a direct simulation of the oral cavity was not attempted, the results show that the chemostat could be used as an environmentally-related model to grow complex but reproducible communities of oral bacteria for long periods from a defined inoculum.

Metabolism of mixed human colonic bacteria in a continuous culture mimicking the human cecal contents.The purpose of this study was to develop an in vitro model of the proximal colon that would permit investigation of the function of colonic bacteria. Five continuous cultures of fecal bacteria were maintained anaerobically in steady state for at least 21 days in a medium simulating ileostomy effluent. The pH was maintained at 6 by the controlled infusion of sodium bicarbonate. Fresh medium (13 ml) was pumped into the culture for 2 min every hour and excess culture was simultaneously removed. The redox potential of all cultures remained below -300 mV, whereas the osmolality was maintained hypertonic compared with the original inoculum or medium. The cultures readily produced volatile fatty acids at a rate of 30.4 +/- 3.6 mmol/day (mean +/- SEM). Acetic acid (10-19 mmol/day) and propionic acid (5-30 mmol/day) were produced in the largest amounts, whereas butyric acid was produced only in small amounts or not at all. Ammonia was produced in each culture in amounts that varied from day to day and between cultures. The osmolality and volatile fatty acid production increased when the carbohydrate input was doubled and decreased when the cultures were deprived of carbohydrate. Thus it is possible to maintain actively fermenting viable cultures in vitro for prolonged periods; such cultures respond to changing conditions and may be useful in investigating the metabolic function of the colon.

The effects of pH on colonic bacteria grown in continuous culture.A model of the proximal colon was used to investigate the effects of pH on fermentation by colonic bacteria in vitro. Twelve continuous anaerobic cultures of human faecal bacteria were maintained at constant pH in a medium simulating ileostomy effluent. Five cultures were maintained at pH 7, five at pH 6, and two at pH 5. The pH of each of three further cultures was altered after they had reached steady state, either from 7 to 6 and then to 5, or from 5 to 6 to 7. Both experimental designs showed that the pH exerted an important effect on bacterial metabolism without causing major changes in bacterial populations. Osmolality was lower in cultures run at a low pH. Total volatile fatty acid concentration was decreased at pH 5, and the production of propionic acid rather than acetic acid was favoured at pH 6. Changing the pH had no significant influence on the production of ammonia in these systems.

A soluble suppressor T cell factor protects against experimental intraabdominal abscesses.This paper describes a suppressor T cell factor which protects mice against intraabdominal abscesses caused by Bacteroides fragilis. This soluble cell-free factor (ITF) is derived from splenic T cells from mice immunized with capsular polysaccharide (CP) of B. fragilis. Mice receiving ITF are protected from developing abscesses caused by B. fragilis to the same degree as animals receiving intact immune splenic T cells. The factor appears to be small in molecular size as protective activity is dialyzable through a 12,000-mol wt exclusion dialysis membrane and is present in fractions intermediate between the bed and void volumes of a P2 Biogel column. The protective effect of ITF is antigen-specific to B. fragilis alone. Mice given a complex inoculum of B. fragilis, enterococcus, and another anaerobe develop abscesses even after receiving column-purified ITF. The activity of ITF also is eliminated after adsorption with B. fragilis CP coupled to sheep erythrocytes but not with an unrelated CP coupled to sheep erythrocytes. ITF, therefore, appears to have a binding site for B. fragilis CP. ITF is heat-labile and loses efficacy after protease digestion, suggesting that the active material is a protein. These studies define a suppressor cell factor with activity in a model system resembling human disease and offer promise for increased understanding of the diversity of cell-mediated immune systems.

[The rumen fermenter].The two main pregastric compartments of ruminants (rumen and reticulum) can be compared to an anaerobic fermenter which allows them to use energetic and nitrogen substrates which are indigestible by monogastric animals. The aim of this bibliographic review is to describe the main features (characteristics) of this fermenter, focusing on the role of microbes (bacteria, protozoa and fungi), on the degradation of cell-wall carbohydrates (cellulose, hemicelluloses, pectic substances), on nitrogen digestion and finally on the utilisation of the major minerals and trace elements.

Toxic products in hemorrhagic ascitic fluid generated during experimental acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis in dogs and a treatment which reduces their effect.Toxic substances produced in hemorrhagic ascitic fluid during experimental hemorrhagic pancreatitis in dogs were investigated. An average of 394 ml of ascitic fluid was produced within 5 h after the induction of acute pancreatitis by intraductal injection of a mixture of autologous bile and trypsin. Hemorrhagic ascitic fluid was collected under sterile conditions, which was confirmed by aerobic and anaerobic culture and a Limulus test. The sterile fluid was injected intraperitoneally into mice in doses of 2 and 3 ml, and the mortality rate 72 h after injection was 66.0 and 88.4%, respectively. It contained high concentrations of pancreatic enzymes, including trypsin and esterase activity, as well as bradykinin, histamine and prostaglandin. Autopsy and histological examination of mice revealed shock with lung damage. The results suggest that hemorrhagic ascitic fluid produced in pancreatitis may be an important factor for early deaths in acute pancreatitis. When a new synthetic antiprotease (nafamstat mesilate) in a dosage of 0.2 mg was mixed with 1 ml of ascitic fluid, trypsin was not detectable, and bradykinin was reduced 1.0 ng/ml from 8.0 ng/ml, while esterase activity decreased to one tenth of its previous activity. The mortality following injection of the solution decreased to 26.7 and 80.6%, respectively. These results indicate that peritoneal lavage with a solution containing antiprotease may be an effective treatment for hemorrhagic acute pancreatitis.

Effects of mitomycin C on metabolism in a rat liver preparation.Quinone drugs are used extensively as anti-neoplastic agents. The mechanism of their actions and the reasons for their unfavorable side effects are not well understood. Mitomycin C (MC) is an N-heterocyclic quinone with chemotherapeutic action against solid tumors. Previous research has led to the development of a model for drug activation involving NADPH reduction of the drug via microsomal mixed-function oxidases. We tested the possibility that NADPH is provided from the hexose monophosphate shunt (HMPS). The MC did indeed increase HMPS activity aerobically, while not affecting Kreb's cycle activity. Anaerobic stimulation of the shunt is also predicted by the model. However, under hypoxic conditions no HMPS or Kreb's activity was observed in MC-treated or untreated samples. Other investigators have documented the involvement of reactive oxygen species in microsomal systems in vitro. The oxygen requirement for MC stimulation of HMPS suggests oxygen radical involvement. We carried out experiments using [14C]-formate as a scavenger for hydrogen peroxide. There was no apparent change in H2O2 production when MC was added. Catalase is known to be involved in peroxide metabolism in vivo; however, addition of the catalase inhibitor sodium azide did not alter endogenous or MC-stimulated shunt activity. The microsomal inhibitor SKF-525A (10(-3) M) prevented MC stimulation of the HMPS, which is consistent with the model implicating microsomal enzymes in MC metabolism. Overall, we have shown the oxygen dependence of endogenous and MC-stimulated shunt activity, and the results provide evidence for MC activation of oxidative metabolism by a mechanism which involves microsomes.

Drug residue formation from ronidazole, a 5-nitroimidazole. VII. Comparison of protein-bound products formed in vitro and in vivo.In vivo experiments were conducted with ronidazole radiolabelled in the 2-14CH2-, 4,5-14C-, N-14CH3- and 4-3H-positions. The hepatic protein-bound residues, assessed by the radioactivity of exhaustively washed protein samples, were independent of the radiolabel position and occurred with 4-3H loss (greater than 80%) in excellent agreement to previous results obtained in vitro with anaerobic incubations of liver microsomes (Miwa et al., Chem. Biol. Interact., 41 (1982) 297). HPLC analysis of acid hydrolyzed in vivo protein-bound residues, obtained from [2-14CH2] ronidazole, produced a radiochromatographic profile which was virtually identical to that obtained from a similarly treated in vitro sample. Moreover, almost quantitative (76-96%) liberation of radiolabelled methylamine was obtained from hydrolysates of in vivo and in vitro residue samples formed from [N-14CH3] ronidazole. With 4,5-ring labeled ronidazole the distribution of total radioactivity of the protein hydrolysate on cation exchange resin and the fraction of the residue recovered as oxalic acid were nearly identical for the in vivo and in vitro products. We interpret these data to indicate that ronidazole alkylates proteins with retention of most of the carbon framework of the molecule, in vivo. It is also concluded that the in vitro model, previously used to examine the mechanism of protein alkylation, accurately reflects the salient process initially occurring in the intact animal during the formation of protein-bound residues of this drug.

[Determination of the ecological niche of Bacteroides in the gastrointestinal tract--a study of a model of sterile intestines in germ-free animals].The interrelations of the population of microorganisms belonging to the genus Bacteroides with the structures of the mucous membrane of the gastrointestinal tract of germ-free guinea pigs and mini-pigs have been studied. A considerable part of the population of these anaerobic microorganisms is associated in some way with the intestinal mucosa; at least, quite a number of these organisms inhabit mucins covering the mucosa. The determination of this ecological niche occupied by bacteroids in the intestinal microbiocenosis suggests that these organisms have considerable influence on the physiological functions and pathological states of the digestive tract.

Protective effects and role of endotoxin in experimental septicemia.An experimental model was used in mice in which septicemia develops following invasion of the animals' own intestinal flora after cecal ligation and puncture. Pretreatment with 1 microgram of endotoxin administered 24 hours before surgery significantly reduced the rate of lethality. Bacteria were counted and differentiated in cardiac blood at various times throughout a 48-hour period after induction of septicemia in mice, with and without pretreatment. Endotoxin levels and plasma-related interference of the Limulus-amebocyte-lysate (LAL)-endotoxin reaction also were determined as were hematologic and metabolic parameters. A shift from mixed gram-positive and gram-negative to predominantly gram-negative bacteria occurred in both groups. In pretreated mice, a reduction in aerobic bacterial counts and reduced hyperglycemia were seen in the initial phase; and a decrease in anaerobic and aerobic bacteria and in endotoxin levels were observed at the end of the experiment. This appears to be related to endotoxin-induced increased resistance against the consequences of intraabdominal sepsis. These studies also indicate that the measured amount of circulating endotoxin does not necessarily correlate to the severeness of infection. Individual differences in plasma-related interference with the LAL-endotoxin reaction also emphasize the requirement for sample-internal standardization in order to reliably quantify endotoxin in plasma.

Hepatic and systemic metabolic responses to aerobic and anaerobic intra-abdominal abscesses in a highly reproducible chronic rat model.A single, uniform abscess was formed in 100% of the animals inoculated with a fecal pellet made of sterile rat feces, agar, and a known number and strain of bacteria. The effects of monoclonal Escherichia coli abscess (83 rats) were compared to those of sterile abscess (34 rats) and sham operation (35 rats without abscess). Bacteroides fragilis was added to the sterile pellet to study the effect of an anaerobic monoclonal abscess (16 rats) or of a biclonal abscess containing both aerobes and anaerobes (32 rats). After inoculation, a peritonitis stage with leucopenia, hypoglycemia, body weight loss, and slight fever was followed by the abscess stage with leucocytosis and a slight hyperglycemia. Mild hepatic energy charge deficiency and hepatic lactic acidosis were observed in sterile abscess rats, and slightly enhanced energy charge was seen in monoclonal E. coli abscess rats. The addition of B. fragilis to the sterile pellet, alone or together with E. coli, produced hepatic energy charge deficiency and hepatic lactic acidosis, which were significantly enhanced compared with the monoclonal E. coli abscess rats. The greatest effect was seen in the biclonal E. coli plus B. fragilis abscess, suggesting that anaerobic or combined aerobe and anaerobe abscesses may produce a greater hepatic injury than an aerobic organism abscess alone. This may account for the apparent synergic interaction between aerobic and anaerobic organisms.

[Intestinal flora under conditions of stress].In healthy probands influenced by endocrinic stress (application of ACTH, growth hormone, and triiodothyronine) the microflora of the content of the duodenum and of the feces is examined. After three weeks, only, rising numbers of bacteria could be detected in the duodenal content. The number of the aerobic bacteria, mainly of the coliforms in the feces, decreased whereas the number of the anaerobic germs increased. This stress model seems to be suitable for such researches.

Intracolonic environment and the presence of colonic adenomas in man.A promoting effect of large bowel contents on colonic carcinogenesis as seen in the animal model is still incompletely explored in man. We investigated simultaneously deoxycholate absorption (as marker of colonic mucosal exposure to tumour promoting bile salt metabolites), mouth-anus transit time, and the ratio of anaerobic to aerobic bacteria in stool in 10 persons with colonic adenomas and in 10 age matched control subjects. We found that anaerobic/aerobic ratios and colonic deoxycholate absorption were higher in patients with colonic adenomas (p less than 0.002 and p less than 0.001) and that these parameters were clearly interrelated, which also applied to intestinal transit times and the anaerobic/aerobic ratios. These data are consistent with a promoting effect of the intracolonic environment on development of adenomas in man. Long term induction of a more aerobic colon flora and shortening of intestinal transit time may diminish bile-salt induced tumour promotion in adenoma patients.

The effect of ischemia of the dog's colon on transmural migration of bacteria and endotoxin.The purpose of this investigation was to evaluate the effect of temporary ischemia created during the surgical preparation of the colon for resection on transmural migration of bacteria and passage of endotoxin through the ischemic wall of the canine colon. Eighteen dogs were used: in fourteen the colon was devascularized by ligating all marginal vessels. Aerobic and anaerobic cultures and washings for endotoxin assay were obtained from the surface of the bowel at intervals up to 6 hr after creating the ischemia. Peripheral and portal blood samples were also obtained at equal intervals for bacteriologic cultures and endotoxin assay. Bacterial transmural migration was examined in 10 dogs. In 6 of the dogs biologically marked bacteria were introduced into the colon via a rectal catheter before producing the ischemia. In 4 dogs radioactively labeled endotoxin was introduced into the colon in a similar fashion. In all the dogs, surface cultures, both routine and specific for the marked bacteria, were negative for the whole period of up to 6 hr after creation of ischemia. All portal and peripheral vein cultures were also negative. Transmural migration of endotoxin was investigated in 8 dogs, 4 of which served as controls and underwent a sham operation. In the 4 dogs in which the colon was devascularized endotoxin was discovered in peritoneal washings, and in portal and systemic blood samples, as early as 30 min after the preparation of the bowel was completed. In the control dogs endotoxin assays were negative throughout the experiment. In this model up to 6 hr of ischemia did not result in migration of bacteria through the ischemic wall. Endotoxin, however, entered the peritoneum and the blood very soon after producing the ischemia.

A polymeric drug for treatment of inflammatory bowel disease.Sulfasalazine (SASP) consists of salicylic acid azo linked at the 5-position to a pyridine-containing sulfonamide. This drug, currently used in inflammatory bowel disease treatment, is reductively cleaved by anaerobic bacteria in the lower bowel to 5-aminosalicylic acid (5-ASA) and sulfapyridine (SP). Recent reports indicate that 5-ASA is the active therapeutic moiety and that SP is responsible for a variety of adverse clinical side effects. Water-soluble polymer 7, which contains salicylate residues azo linked at the 5-position to an inert polymer backbone, has been synthesized for the site-specific reductive release of 5-ASA in the lower bowel. Preparations of 7 deliver (chemical reduction) greater than 1.96 mmol of 5-ASA/g of polymer. In vitro studies with the polymer in anaerobic rat cecal bacteria demonstrated a reduction rate of approximately 1 mu equiv of azo bond h-1 (mL of cecal content)-1. A pharmacokinetic comparison of polymer and SASP showed similar deliveries of 5-ASA and metabolites to the lower bowel, blood, and urine of orally dosed rats. Polymer 7 proved more active than SASP or 5-ASA in the guinea pig ulcerative colitis model. Potential therapeutic advantages of 7 include nonabsorption/nonmetabolism in the small intestine, direct 5-ASA release at the disease site, and nonabsorption/nonmetabolism of the reduction-released carrier polymer.

[Model UF-2 mutant of Staphylococcus aureus 209 P for titrating Vibrio cholera enterotoxin].The identical character of the action of crude V. cholerae enterotoxin on the anaerobic dehydrogenases of the UV-2 mutant of S. aureus 209 p and the surviving culture of Ehrlich's carcinoma has been revealed. The range of this action is linked with the concentration of the toxin and varies from the stimulation of cell dehydrogenases to their complete suppression. The rapid method for the titration of the enterotoxin in the dehydrogenase suppression test with the use of the bacterial model is proposed.

Influence of hypoxia on the metabolism and excretion of misonidazole by the isolated perfused rat liver--a model system.The isolated perfused rat liver was evaluated as a model system for the characterization of misonidazole metabolism under hypoxic conditions. Misonidazole metabolism by livers perfused under aerobic conditions was also examined. The clearance of misonidazole was more than three times greater under anaerobic compared to aerobic conditions (4.94 +/- 1.56 vs 1.27 +/- 0.22 ml/min; means +/- S.D., N = 3). Misonidazole metabolites were detected only in the bile. Analysis of these metabolites by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) demonstrated that misonidazole metabolism was also qualitatively changed when anaerobic conditions were employed. Misonidazole beta-glucuronide was the major metabolite detected under aerobic conditions, but it was a minor metabolite in anaerobically perfused livers. The three major metabolites produced under anaerobic conditions were not characterized, but desmethyl misonidazole (RO-07-9963) and the 2-amino-imidazole derivative of misonidazole (1-[2-aminoimidazol-1-yl]-3-methoxy-2-propanol) were excluded as possible structures.

Mechanisms that control bacterial populations in continuous-flow culture models of mouse large intestinal flora.A previous study had established that anaerobic continuous-flow (CF) cultures of conventional mouse cecal flora were able to maintain the in vivo ecological balance among the indigenous bacterial species tested. This paper describes experiments designed to determine the mechanisms which control the population sizes of these species in such CF cultures. One strain each of Escherichia coli, Fusobacterium sp., and Eubacterium sp. were studied. Growth of these strains in filtrates of CF cultures was considerably more rapid than in the CF cultures themselves, indicating that the inhibitory activity had been lost in the process of filtration. Growth rates to match those in CF cultures could be obtained, however, by restoring the original levels of H(2)S in the culture filtrates. The inhibitory effect of H(2)S in filtrates and in dialysates of CF cultures could be abolished by adding glucose or pyruvate, but not formate or lactate. The fatty acids present in CF cultures matched those in the cecum of conventional mice in both quality and concentration. These acids could not account for the slow rates of growth of the tested strains in CF cultures, but they did cause a marked increase in the initial lag phase of E. coli growth. The results obtained are compatible with the hypothesis that the populations of most indigenous intestinal bacteria are controlled by one or a few nutritional substrates which a given strain can utilize most efficiently in the presence of H(2)S and at the prevailing conditions of pH and anaerobiosis. This hypothesis consequently implies that the populations of enterobacteria, such as the E. coli strain tested, and those of the predominant anaerobes are controlled by analogous mechanisms.

Continuous-flow cultures as in vitro models of the ecology of large intestinal flora.An anaerobic continuous-flow (CF) culture method has been developed which reproduces a number of bacterial interactions that occur in the large intestine of mice. These were determined in the following ways. (i) Bacterial counts in smears stained with 37 specific fluorescent antisera showed that the numeric balance between 37 strict anaerobes isolated from conventional mice was maintained in CF culture of conventional mouse flora in the same manner as in conventional mice. (ii) Mixed populations of various complexity of bacteria isolated from conventional mice were able to suppress Escherichia coli populations to similar levels in gnotobiotic mice and in CF cultures. (iii) Contents of CF cultures when fed to germfree mice were found to redress the germfree abnormalities studied, namely, cecal size and size of the E. coli population. Furthermore, dense layers of bacterial growth formed on the wall of CF cultures of mouse cecal flora, in a manner analogous to the colonization of mouse large intestinal mucosa. In the absence of such bacterial layers, the culture no longer exhibited these interactions. Because of the complexity and diversity of the interactions studied it is highly probable that at least the major underlying ecological control mechanisms operating in the culture model resemble those of the mouse intestine. We speculate that the somewhat surprising similarity between the ecology of the mouse large intestine and that of a CF culture in a glass vessel is due to the fact that both are dominated by thick layers of complex bacterial flora, the composition of which is controlled by their metabolic activities and by their relative ability to adhere to each other.

Studies of enterotoxin of Shigella dysenteriae type 1. I. Effect of aeration on the production of enterotoxin and suitability of laboratory animals for its biological assay.Shigella dysenteriae type 1 was used to study the influence of aeration on enterotoxin production and the suitability of laboratory animals for the toxin assay. The enterotoxin produced under aerobic shake culture conditions gave a gut dilatory response of 1.436 but that obtained in aerobic and anaerobic stationary cultures exerted no activity. The toxin fractionated on Sephadex G-150 column was more effective than that obtained by ammonium sulphate precipitation. Only Sephadex column fraction II had a toxic activity. Among the three laboratory animal models tested, the rabbit ileal loop was suitable for the assay of toxin. The skin permeability test was unsatisfactory for enterotoxicity assay.

Survival rates of parasite eggs in sludge during aerobic and anaerobic digestion.The effects of mesothermic anaerobic or aerobic sludge digestion on survival of eggs from the roundworms Ascaris suum, toxocara canis, Trichuris vulpis, and Trichuris suis and from the rat tapeworm Hymenolepis diminuta were studied. Destruction of eggs throughout a 15-day treatment period, as well as their viabilities after reisolation, was analyzed. The laboratory model digesters used in this study were maintained at a 15-day retention schedule, partially simulating a continuously operating system. Ascaris eggs were destroyed in the anaerobic (23%) or aerobic (38%) digesters, and 11% Trichuris eggs were destroyed in the aerobic digesters. Trichuris eggs in anaerobic digesters and Toxocara eggs in either anaerobic or aerobic digesters were not destroyed. Destruction of eggs in digesters was correlated with the state of the eggs before subjection to the treatment processes; i.e., some Ascaris and Trichuris eggs were already embryonated in host intestinal contents or feces and hence past their most resistant stage. The viabilities of Ascaris and Toxocara eggs that survived the digestion processes were greater in anaerobically treated than in aerobically treated material. Eggs from Hymenolepis were nonviable before use in the experiments. However, they were more effectively destroyed in aerobic digesters than in anaerobic digesters.

The mechanism of reductive dehalogenation of halothane by liver cytochrome P450.The reductive dehalogenation of halothane leading to 2-chloro-1,1,1-trifluoroethane (CTE) and 2-chloro-1,1-difluoroethylene (CDE) has been investigated in vitro using at liver microsomes under anaerobic conditions. The stimulation of NADPH oxidation by halothane as well as the formation of the products were dependent upon cytochrome P450 as indicated by their CO and metyrapone inhibition. After replacement of NADPH by sodium dithionite as a reducing agent CDE was the only product of the enzymatic reaction. The product pattern was influenced by pretreatment with 3-methylcholanthrene, benzo(a)pyrene, phenobarbitone and Arochlor 1254 and by addition of anti-cytochrome P450-PB immunoglobulin. The CTE:CDE ratio was shifted by addition or inhibition of cytochrome b5 and by pH variation indicating a crucial role of the second electron donation to cytochrome P450 in determining the product pattern. The intermediate complex of cytochrome P450 with a Soret band at 470 nm formed with halothane in reduced liver microsomes was shown to decompose spontaneously to give CDE. Therefore we propose the 470 nm peak to represent a cytochrome P450 Fe3+----CHCl-CF3 carbanion complex. From these results a reaction pathway could be derived which includes radical and carbanion intermediates as reactive precursors of CTE and CDE, respectively.

Antibiotic prophylaxis with cefoxitin in colorectal surgery: effect on the colon microflora and septic complications--a clinical model for prediction of the benefit and risks in using a new antibiotic in prophylaxis.Cefoxitin was administered parenterally in doses of 2 g, every six hours for two days, to 20 patients undergoing colorectal surgery. Blood and fecal specimens were obtained for five days for analysis of cefoxitin concentrations. Tissue samples from the gut wall were obtained at surgery. The maximum serum concentrations during surgery varied between 25 and 100 microgram/ml, and the cefoxitin concentrations for the fecal samples were 1.5-35 microgram/g and for the tissue samples, 2.0-50 microgram/g. Fecal samples for cultivation of aerobic and anaerobic bacteria were also obtained daily during the first five days, and after 14 day after operation. Pronounced changes in the microflora occurred during the investigation period. Among the aerobic bacteria, cefoxitin-sensitive Escherichia coli and other enterobacteria decreased markedly while cefoxitin-resistant enterococci, Pseudomonas and Enterobacter proliferated during the antibiotic prophylaxis period. Among the anaerobic bacteria, Bacteroides fragilis and other Gram-negative bacteria decreased significantly. However, after the antibiotic administration period, all cefoxitin-resistant strains decreased while the suppressed E. coli and B. fragilis strains increased. In one patient, a minor postoperative infection caused by a cefoxitin-resistant strain of Pseudomonas aeruginosa was observed.

The action of metronidazole on anaerobic bacilli and similar organisms.

Transient 45Ca uptake and release in isolated rat-liver cells during recovery from deenergized states.1. Aerobic incubation of isolated rat liver cells--after dilution from the anaerobic stock suspension--transiently brings about a state, during which a reversible calcium uptake can be observed on addition of a respiratory substrate. Uptake varies greatly and can reach more than 50 nmol/mg protein, but declines to zero on prolonged preincubation, especially at higher temperature. Repeated additions of succinate or 3-hydroxybutyrate evoke new calcium transients. If ATP is simultaneously added, if greatly potentiates succinate-initiated reversible uptake. 2. If rotenone is present during the preincubation phase, calcium transients are strongly enhanced. Uptake is blocked by uncouplers and respiratory inhibitors, indicating the involvement of mitochondria. 3. Calcium uptake is not accompanied by increased oxygen consumption. The actual respiration cannot account sufficiently for the energy need of calcium uptake. Participation of cytoplasmic ATP is likely, as inhibitors of adenine nucleotide translocase affect uptake. 4. Lanthanum enhances calcium uptake in contrast to its action on mitochondria. 5. Pulse-labeling experiments indicate that the calcium taken up is removed from a rapidly exchangeable calcium pool by withdrawal into the mitochondria as a deep compartment. 6. Calcium uptake is accelerated either by increasing the phosphate level or by high temperature. It is prolonged by low temperature, high pH or high ATP concentration. Calcium release accelerates with increasing temperature, decreasing pH and a further rise in phosphate concentration. 7. The dependency on phosphate and temperature reveals a delicately poised equilibrium of uptake and release. At ambient temperature, phosphate increases uptake up to a concentration of 0.5 mM. Higher concentrations accelerate both uptake and release. At lower temperature, the accelerating effect on uptake predominates. A temperature shift during incubation results in adaptation of the calcium equilibrium to the new temperature, i.e. release of calcium at high temperature, uptake at low temperature. 8. Oxidizing metabolites inhibit succinate-stimulated calcium uptake and promote release of previously accumulated calcium. An increased sensitivity to phosphate is established. 9. With respect to isolated mitochondria, isolated liver cells appear to be a more realistic model for studying the physiological mechanism of mitochondrial calcium release, since compartmental constraints and regulations are maintained.

Hyperammonemic coma after hepatectomy in germ-free rats.Current theories on the pathogenesis of hepatic coma indicate that intestinal bacteria produce cerebral toxins, such as ammonia, mercaptans, and short-chain fatty acids. To test the hypothesis that elimination of anaerobic and aerobic intestinal bacteria retards the onset and alters the biochemical profile of acute hepatic coma, we determined the onset of coma and the ammonia concentration in blood and cecal contents in 7 germ-free and 10 normal dehepatized rats. Ammonia levels were also determined in a further group of 7 germ-free and 12 normal rats 24 hr after hepatic vascular exclusion was accomplished. Onset of coma for germ-free rats (x: 34 hr) was identical to that of normal rats (x: 36 hr). Arterial ammonia was equally elevated in germ-free rats (x: 834 mumol/liter) and in normal rats (x: 854 mumol/liter), although the ammonia concentration in the cecal contents was significantly lower in germ-free rats (x: 1762 mumol/liter) than in normal rats (x: 5572 mumol/liter). In germ-free animals, portal venous blood contained more ammonia than arterial blood (x A-V difference: -87 mumol/liter), indicating nonbacterial intestinal ammonia release. We conclude that intestinal bacteria toxins are of minor importance in the mechanism of acute hepatic coma of the liverless rat and that presumably bacterial toxins, such as ammonia, can be products of nonbacterial metabolism. Since hyperammonemia could be considered an important determinant of coma in our model, prevention of hyperammonemia in functionally anhepatic animals should be the next objective in unraveling the pathogenesis of acute hepatic coma.

Purification and some properties of cholesterol oxidase from Schizophyllum commune with covalently bound flavin.Cholesterol oxidase [EC 1.1.3.6] from Schizophyllum commune was purified by an affinity chromatography using 3-O-succinylcholesterol-ethylenediamine (3-cholesteryl-3-[2-aminoethylamido]propionate) Sepharose gels. The resulting preparation was homogeneous as judged by sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS) polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The molecular weight of the enzyme was estimated to be 53,000 by SDS-gel electrophoresis and 46,000 by sedimentation equilibrium. The enzyme contained 483 amino acid residues as calculated on the basis of the molecular weight of 53,000. The enzyme consumed 60 mumol of O2/min per mg of protein with 1.3 mM cholesterol at 37 degrees C. The enzyme showed the highest activity with cholesterol; 3 beta-hydroxysteroids, such as dehydroepiandrosterone, pregnenolone, and lanosterol, were also oxidized at slower rates. Ergosterol was not oxidized by the enzyme. The Km for cholesterol was 0.33 mM and the optimal pH was 5.0. The enzyme is a flavoprotein which shows a visible absorption spectrum having peaks at 353 nm and 455 nm in 0.1 M acetate buffer, pH 4.0. The spectrum was characterized by the hypsochromic shift of the second absorption peak of the bound flavin. The bound flavin was reduced on anaerobic addition of a model substrate, dehydroepiandrosterone. Neither acid not heat treatment released the flavin coenzyme from the enzyme protein. The flavin of the enzyme could be easily released from the enzyme protein in acid-soluble form as flavin peptides when the enzyme protein was digested with trypsin plus chymotrypsin. The mobilities of the aminoacyl flavin after hydrolysis of the flavin peptides on thin layer chromatography and high voltage electrophoresis differed from those of free FAD, FMN, and riboflavin. A pKa value of 5.1 was obtained from pH-dependent fluorescence quenching process of the aminoacyl flavin. AMP was detected by hydrolysis of the flavin peptides with nucleotide pyrophosphatase. The results indicate strongly that cholesterol oxidase from Schizophyllum commune contains FAD as the prothetic group, which is covalently linked to the enzyme protein. The properties of the bound FAD were comparable to those of N (1)-histidyl FAD.

Absorption, biotransformation, and storage of halothane.Current knowledge of the quantitative aspects of biotransformation of halothane and the fate of its metabolites are reviewed. Absorbed quantities of the inhalation anesthetic average 12.7 and 18 g during 1 and 2 hr, respectively, of anesthesia. Reported fractions of halothane recovered as urinary metabolites range from 10 to 25%. An analysis of reports of bromide ion accumulation in plasma during and following anesthesia suggests that metabolism of halothane continues for 20-40 hr after exposure and that 22-24% of absorbed halothane is metabolized following 8 hr of anesthesia. Half-times for excretion of trifluoroacetic acid (TFA), a principal urinary metabolite of halothane, tend to confirm that biotransformation proceeds for 2 to 3 days following exposure. Other urinary metabolites which occur in small amounts include a dehydrofluorinated metabolite of halothane conjugated with L-cysteine and N-trifluoroacetyl-n-ethanolamine, both of which are evidence of the occurrence of reactive intermediates during the metabolism of halothane. Support for free radical formation has come from in vivo and in vitro demonstrations of stimulation of lipoperoxidation of polyenoic fatty acids by halothane. Irreversible binding of halothane metabolites to microsomal proteins and phospholipids has been shown to depend on the microsomal P-450 cytochrome system. Irreversible binding is increased by microsomal enzyme induction and by anaerobic conditions. Hypoxia increases irreversible binding to phospholipids, augments the release of inorganic fluoride and is followed by centrilobular hepatic necrosis. It is concluded that one-fourth to one-half of halothane undergoes biotransformation in man. One fraction is excreted as trifluoroacetic acid, chloride and bromide. A second fraction is irreversibly bound to hepatic proteins and lipids. Under anaerobic conditions fluoride is released, binding to phospholipids is increased, and hepatic necrosis may occur.

Rabbit intestinal fluid stimulation by an enterotoxigenic factor of Staphylococcus aureus.An exoprotein of Staphylococcus aureus 100 that elicited a positive ileal loop response in the rabbit model was investigated in this study. The protein, as it occurred in the culture supernatant fluid, could be detected initially in the late log phase of growth under aerobic and anaerobic conditions. It was stable under acidic conditions to pH 2.0 after 24 h at 4 degrees C. Thirty-minute treatments at 80 degrees C destroyed the ileal loop activity whereas similar trials at 70 degrees C had no effect. Although preparations of staphylococcal enterotoxins purified by other investigators did not produce positive ileal loops, the enterotoxigenic activity of the S. aureus 100 supernatant fluid could be neutralized by antisera prepared against enterotoxins A and B. Throughout purification studies, the active moiety reacted serologically with antiserum A. Polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of the partially purified protein produced migration patterns nearly identical to those of enterotoxin A.

Animal models for the study of dietary factors and cancer of the large bowel.Studies in metabolic epidemiology have shown a strong association between dietary fat intake, level of fecal anaerobic bacteria, fecal acid, and neutral sterols and the risk of colon cancer among different populations. Current concepts visualize that colonic bile acids and cholesterol metabolites play a modifying role in large bowel carcinogenesis, that these compounds are derived from dietary factors (directly or indirectly), and that they subsequently are modified by the intestinal bacteria. In the animal model, 2 bile acids (lithocholic and taurodeoxycholic) acted as colon tumor promoters. Rats fed a high-fat diet were more susceptible to colon tumor induction by 1,2-dimethylhydrazine compared to animals fed a normal-fat diet. The intestinal microflora also played a modifying role in enhancing colon tumor production by 1,2-dimethylhydrazine.

Experimental intra-abdominal abscesses in rats: development of an experimental model.An animal model has been developed to study the evolution of intra-abdominal abscesses. Gelatin capsules containing pooled colonic contents and barium sulfate were prepared in an anaerobic chamber and implanted into the pelvic region of Wistar rats. The natural course of the ensuing disease was studied in various groups according to the source of the inoculum and sex of the recipient. Colonic contents derived from rats fed a grain diet produced a highly lethal disease with an 80% mortality rate for males and 100% for females. Most deaths occurred within 3 days of implantation, and autopsies showed generalized peritonitis. The addition of blood to the inoculum caused a rapidly fatal peritonitis in all animals. With an inoculum derived from meat-fed rats implanted in male recipients, there was a biphasic disease. Initially, there was peritonitis associated with 43% mortality. All animals that survived this acute period developed discrete intra-abdominal abscesses by the seventh postoperative day. The latter stage was characterized by an indolent course and progressive enlargement of abscesses.

The nature of the acid-volatile selenium in the liver of the male rat.1. The properties of rat liver acid-volatile selenium have been compared with those of H(2)Se and (CH(3))(2)Se. 2. In model experiments oxidation-sensitive H(2) (75)Se was trapped quantitatively under anaerobic conditions in 0.1m-AgNO(3), and (CH(3))(2) (75)Se was trapped quantitatively in 8m-HNO(3). The acid-labile selenium of a liver homogenate, and of a microsomal fraction, was found to behave quite unlike (CH(3))(2) (75)Se and in a manner indistinguishable from H(2) (75)Se. 3. It was concluded that the acid-volatile material is certainly not (CH(3))(2)Se and that it is probably H(2)Se. 4. The significance of these findings is discussed in relation to current knowledge about the metabolism and detoxication of selenium, and a scheme is proposed which incorporates this knowledge with recent observations on the interactions between trace amounts of selenium and tocopherol, and the production of acute selenium deficiency by Ag(+) in vitamin E-deficient rats.

Anaerobic digestion in biological waste treatment.

Energy metabolism in anaerobes.

Acid-base titration across the membrane system of rat-liver mitochondria. Catalysis by uncouplers.1. Pulsed acid-base titrations of suspensions of rat-liver mitochondria under anaerobic equilibrium conditions show fast and slow titration processes. 2. The fast process is the titration of the outer aqueous phase of the mitochondria, which is continuous with the suspension medium, and the slow process can be identified with the titration of the inner aqueous phase of the mitochondria, which is separated from the outer aqueous phase by the non-aqueous osmotic barrier or M phase of the cristae membrane system. 3. The buffering power of the outer and inner phases have been separately measured over a range of pH values. 4. The rate of titration of the inner aqueous phase under a known protonmotive force across the M phase has been characterized by an effective proton conductance coefficient, which, near pH7 and at 25 degrees , is only 0.45mumho/cm.(2) of the M-phase membrane. 5. The low effective proton conductance of the M phase will account quantitatively for the observed respiratory control in state 4, assuming that oxidoreduction and phosphorylation are coupled by a circulating proton current as required by the chemi-osmotic hypothesis. 6. The addition of 2,4-dinitrophenol (or carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone) at normal uncoupling concentrations causes a large increase in the effective proton conductance of the M phase of the cristae membrane. 7. The increase of the effective proton conductance of the M phase by 2,4-dinitrophenol (or carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone) will account quantitatively for the short-circuiting effect of the uncoupling agent on the proton current and for the observed rise of the rate of respiration to that characteristic of state 3 or higher.

Electric-Inducive Microbial Interactions in a Thermophilic Anaerobic Digester Revealed by High-Throughput Sequencing of Micron-Scale Single Flocs.Although conductive materials have been shown to improve efficiency in anaerobic digestion (AD) by modifying microbial interactions, the interacting network under thermophilic conditions has not been examined. To identify the true taxon-taxon associations within thermophilic anaerobic digestion (TAD) microbiome and reveal the influence of carbon cloth (CC) addition, we sampled micron-scale single flocs (40-70 μm) randomly isolated from lab-scale thermophilic digesters. Results revealed that CC addition not only significantly boosted methane yield by 25.3% but also increased the spatial heterogeneity of the community in the sludge medium. After CC addition, an evident translocation of  from the medium to the biofilm was observed, showing their remarkable capacity for biofilm formation. Additionally,  and Thermotogaceae tightly aggregated and steadily co-occurred in the medium and biofilm of the TAD microbiome, which might be associated with their unique extracellular sugar metabolizing style. Finally, CC induced syntrophic interaction between  and denitrifiers of Rhodocyclaceae. The upregulated respiration-associated electron transferring genes (Cyst-c, complex III) on the cellular membranes of these collaborating partners indicated a potential coupling of the denitrification pathway with syntrophic acetate oxidation via direct interspecies electron transfer (DIET). These findings provide an insight into how conductive materials promote thermophilic digestion performance and open the path for improved community monitoring of biotreatment systems.

Microbial fingerprints of methanation in a hybrid electric-biological anaerobic digestion.Biomethane as a sustainable, alternative, and carbon-neutral renewable energy source to fossil fuels is highly needed to alleviate the global energy crisis and climate change. The conventional anaerobic digestion (AD) process for biomethane production from waste(water) streams has been widely employed while struggling with a low production rate, low biogas qualities, and frequent instability. The electric-biologically hybrid microbial electrochemical anaerobic digestion system (MEC-AD) prospects more stable and robust biomethane generation, which facilitates complex organic substrates degradation and mediates functional microbial populations by giving a small input power (commonly voltages < 1.0 V), mainly enhancing the communication between electroactive microorganisms and (electro)methanogens. Despite numerous bioreactor tests and studies that have been conducted, based on the MEC-AD systems, the integrated microbial fingerprints, and cooperation, accelerating substrate degradation, and biomethane production, have not been fully summarized. Herein, we present a comprehensive review of this novel developing biotechnology, beginning with the principles of MEC-AD. First, we examine the fundamentals, configurations, classifications, and influential factors of the whole system's performances (reactor types, applied voltages, temperatures, conductive materials, etc.,). Second, extracellular electron transfer either between diverse microbes or between microbes and electrodes for enhanced biomethane production are analyzed. Third, we further conclude (electro)methanogenesis, and microbial interactions, and construct ecological networks of microbial consortia in MEC-AD. Finally, future development and perspectives on MEC-AD for biomethane production are proposed.

Elucidation of microbial interactions, dynamics, and keystone microbes in high pressure anaerobic digestion.High-pressure anaerobic digestion (HPAD) is a promising technology for producing biogas enriched with high methane content in a single-step process. To enhance HPAD performance, a comprehensive understanding of microbial community dynamics and their interactions is essential. For this, mesophilic batch high-pressurized anaerobic reactors were operated under 3 bars (H3) and 6 bars (H6). The experimental results showed that the effect of high-pressure (up to 6 bar) on acidification was negligible while methanogenesis was significantly delayed. Microbial analysis showed the predominance of Defluviitoga affiliated with the phylum Thermotogae and the reduction of Thiopseudomonas under high-pressure conditions. In addition, the microbial cluster pattern in H3 and H6 was significantly different compared to the CR, indicating a clear shift in microbial community structure. Moreover, Methanobacterium, Methanomicrobiaceae, Alkaliphilus, and Petrimonas were strongly correlated in network analysis, and they could be identified as keystone microbes in the HPAD reactor.

Iron-rich digestate biochar toward sustainable peroxymonosulfate activation for efficient anaerobic digestate dewaterability.In this study, a suite of Fe-rich biochars derived from Fenton-like treated digestate (Fe-BC) were fabricated under different pyrolysis temperatures (300, 500, and 800 °C), which were firstly utilized as peroxymonosulfate (PMS) activators for promoting digestate dewaterability with wide applicability. Results showed that compared to the Fe-BC/Fe-BC + PMS treatments, Fe-BC + PMS process performed superior digestate dewaterability in which specific resistance to filtration reduction and water content reduction improved by > 12.5% and > 130%, respectively, under the optimal conditions. Mechanistic results demonstrated that in Fe-BC + PMS system, HO• and SO oxidation played a pivotal role on promoted digestate dewaterability, while HO• and O oxidation was dominated in Fe-BC/Fe-BC + PMS treatments. Fe-BC containing higher Fe and CO contents could efficiently interact with PMS to generate numerous HO• and SO via iron cycle. These highly reactive oxygen species proficiently reduced the hydrophilic biopolymers, protein molecules, and amino acids in extracellular polymeric substances, leading to remarkable decrease in particle size, hydrophilicity, adhesion, network strength, and bound water of digestate. Consequently, the flowability and dewaterability of digestate could be significantly enhanced. The cost-benefit result indicated the Fe-BC + PMS treatment possessed desirable reusability, applicability, and economic viability. Collectively, the Fe-BC + PMS is a high-performance and eco-friendly technique for digestate dewatering, which opens a new horizon towards a closed-loop of digestate reutilization.

High temperature shock threatens methane production via disturbing microbial interactions in anaerobic digestion.Operational strategies shape microbial interactions determining anaerobic digesting process, but it is unclear whether and how the microbial network properties impact gas generation, especially in the transitional stage after operations. This research examined how the high temperature shock affected microbial diversity and network traits connected with the biogas production in a swine manure-fed anaerobic digester. Rising temperature (from 35 °C to 50 °C) significantly reduced biogas and methane production (p < 0.001) in the transitional stage due to the syntrophic loss of Methanomicrobiaceae and Firmicutes affiliated families. The high temperature shock reduced network modularity and thus caused the system functioning loss. Furthermore, the methanogenic stability was disrupted by high temperature shock (reduced the abundance of Methanosphaera but increased the abundance of Methanoculleus), which may result in the subsequent dysbiosis with other syntrophic communities. These findings suggest that the increased temperature-induced high network complexity and stability, but microbial communities need more time to restore the microenvironment via establishing the interactions of keystone species.

Efficient removal of antibiotics from water resources is a public health priority: a critical assessment of the efficacy of some remediation strategies for antibiotics in water.This review discusses the fundamental principles and mechanism of antibiotic removal from water of some commonly applied treatment techniques including chlorination, ozonation, UV-irradiation, Fenton processes, photocatalysis, electrochemical-oxidation, plasma, biochar, anaerobicdigestion, activated carbon and nanomaterials. Some experimental shortfalls identified by researchers such as certain characteristics of degradation agent applied and the strategies explored to override the identified limitations are briefly discussed. Depending on interactions of a range of factors including the type of antibiotic compound, operational parameters applied such as pH, temperature and treatment time, among other factors, all reviewed techniques can eliminate or reduce the levels of antibiotic compounds in water to varying extents. Some of the reviewed techniques such as anaerobic digestion generally require longer treatment times (up to 360, 193 and 170 days, according to some studies), while others such as photocatalysis achieved degradation within short contact time (within a minimum of 30, but up to 60, 240, 300 and 1880 minutes, in some cases). For some treatment techniques such as ozonation and Fenton, it is apparent that subjecting compounds to longer treatment times may improve elimination efficiency, whereas for some other techniques such as nanotechnology, application of longer treatment time generally meant comparatively minimal elimination efficiency. Based on the findings of experimental studies summarized, it is apparent that operational parameters such as pH and treatment time, while critical, do not exert sole or primary influence on the elimination percentage(s) achieved. Elimination efficiency achieved rather seems to be due more to the force of a combination of several factors.

[The relationship between methane production metabolic flux and microorganisms in a microbial electrolytic cell coupled anaerobic digestion].In this study, voltage was used as a disturbance factor to investigate the relationship between microbial community and methane (CH) production flux in a microbial electrolytic cell coupled anaerobic digestion (MEC-AD). Metabolic flux analysis (MFA) was used to explore the relationship between the CH metabolic flux produced and the microbes. The results showed that both methane production flux and hydrogen production flux changed significantly upon voltage disturbance, while the voltage disturbance had little effect on acetic acid production flux. The maximum CH production flux under 0.6 V disturbance was 0.522±0.051, which increased by 77% and 32%, respectively, compared with that of the control group under 1.0 V (0.295±0.013) and under 1.4 V (0.395±0.029). In addition, an average of 15.7%±2.9% of H (flux) was used to reduce CO to produce CH and acetic acid, and an average of 27.7%±6.9% of acetic acid (flux) was converted to CH. Moreover, the abundance of  significantly affected the flux of acetic acid. The flux of CH production is positively correlated with the abundances of , , 28, and , and negatively correlated with the abundances of  and . The species that affected the flux of H and CH were similar, mostly belonging to , ,  and . Furthermore, the interspecies interaction is also an important factor affecting the MEC-AD methanogenesis flux.

Determination of methanogenesis by nutrient availability via regulating the relative fitness of methanogens in anaerobic digestion.Response of microbial community to nutrient availability in anaerobic digestion (AD) remains elusive. Prokaryotic communities in AD batch cultures with 0, 1, 3, 5, 7, 11, 15, 20, and 25 g/L peptone were monitored using massive parallel sequencing and quantitative PCR over a 34-day experimental period. Methane production displayed a hump-shaped response to the nutrient gradient (peaking at 15 g/L peptone). Moreover, total and acetoclastic methanogens showed hump-shaped responses (both peaking at 11 g/L peptone). However, prokaryotic population increased with nutrient concentration (linear regression, R = 0.86) while diversity decreased (R = 0.94), and ordination analysis showed a gradual succession of community structure along the first axis. Network analysis revealed that extent of interspecific interactions (e.g., edge number and clustering coefficient) exhibited a hump-shaped response. The combined results indicate that abundant species became more dominated with increasing nutrient, which can result in a gain or loss of interspecific interaction within the community. Network module analysis showed that one module dominated the network at each nutrient level (comprising 41%-65% of the nodes), indicating that AD community formed a core microbial guild. The most abundant phylotypes, Macellibacteroides and Butyricicoccaceae, were consistently negative with acetoclastic methanogens in the dominant modules. Their predominance at ≥15 g/L peptone can explain the hump-shaped responses of methanogenesis and methanogens. Collectively, methanogenesis and microbial network exhibited hump-shaped responses, although microbial community exhibited monotonic responses. Therefore, nutrient availability can determine the methanogenesis through regulating the relative fitness of methanogens within the community.

Anaerobic digestion of thickened waste activated sludge under calcium hypochlorite stress: Performance stability and microbial communities.Hypochlorite pretreatment has been proven effective in enhancing waste activated sludge (WAS) anaerobic digestion performances recently. In this study, two semi-continuous anaerobic sequencing batch reactors (ASBRs), one fed with Ca(ClO) pretreated thickened WAS (TWAS) and one with raw TWAS, were operated at mesophilic conditions (35 °C) for 145 days. Three loading shocks were introduced to each reactor to compare the performance stability and resilience between the digestion of Ca(ClO) pretreated TWAS and untreated TWAS. Microbial community shifts were quantified to reveal the microbiome responses to disturbances. The results suggested that 1% Ca(ClO) enhanced the digestion of TWAS by inactivating and transforming the biomass to more easily digested substrates. Co-occurrence network analysis revealed that the strongest interactions in the microbial community occurred in the steady state of TWAS anaerobic digestion.

Deeper insights into the effects of substrate to inoculum ratio selection on the relationship of kinetic parameters, microbial communities, and key metabolic pathways during the anaerobic digestion of food waste.The substrate to inoculum ratio (S/I) is a crucial factor that affects not only the stability of the anaerobic digestion (AD) of food waste (FW) but also the methanogenic capacity of the substrate. This is of great significance for the start-up of small-scale batch reactors and the directional regulation of methanogenesi and organic acid production. Most studies have merely clarified the optimal S/I ratio for methane production and revealed the basic composition of microbial communities. However, the mechanism of microbial interactions and the metabolic pathways behind the optimal S/I ratio still remain unclear. Herein, the effects of different S/I ratios (VS basis) on the relationship of kinetic parameters, microbial communities, and metabolic pathways during the AD process of FW were holistically explored. The results revealed that high S/I ratios (4:1, 3:1, 2:1, and 1:1) were prone to irreversible acidification, while low S/I ratios (1:2, 1:3, and 1:4) were favorable for methanogenesis. Moreover, a kinetic analysis demonstrated that the methane yield of S/I = 1:3 were the highest. A bioinformatics analysis found that the diversity of bacteria and archaea of S/I = 1:3 were the most abundant, and the enrichment of Bacteroides and Synergistetes could help to establish a syntrophic relationship with hydrogenotrophic methanogens, which could aid in the fulfillment of a unique niche in the system. In contrast to the findings with the other S/I ratios, the cooperation among microbes in S/I = 1:3 was more apparent. Notably, the abundances of genes encoding key enzymes involved in the methanogenesis pathway under S/I = 1:3 were all the highest. This knowledge will be helpful for revealing the influence mechanism of the ratio relationship between microorganisms and substrates on the biochemical metabolic process of anaerobic digestion, thereby providing effective guidance for the directional regulation of FW batch anaerobic reactors.

Responses of mesophilic anaerobic sludge microbiota to thermophilic conditions: Implications for start-up and operation of thermophilic THP-AD systems.Anaerobic digestion (AD) has been widely employed for wastewater and organic waste treatment, in which methanogenesis is highly driven by close microbial interactions among intricate microbial communities. However, the ecological processes underpinning the community assembly that support methanogenesis in such engineered ecosystems remain largely unknown, especially when exposed to challenging circumstances (e.g., high temperature, ammonium content). Here, eight AD bioreactors were seeded with four different inocula (two from full-scale mesophilic AD systems and the other two from lab-scale mesophilic AD systems), and were operated under thermophilic conditions (55 °C) for treating thermal hydrolysis process (THP) pre-treated waste activated sludge to investigate how mesophilic community responds to thermophilic conditions during the long-term cultivation. Results showed that the inocula collected from the full-scale systems were more resilient than that from the lab-scale systems, which may be primarily attributed to indigenous robust methanogens. As a result, the former efficiently generated methane which was predominantly contributed by Methanothermobacter and Methanosarcina (healthy AD ecosystem), while methanogenic activity was remarkably prohibited in the latter (dysfunctional AD ecosystem). Thermophilic environment was a strong selection force, resulting in the convergence of microbial communities in both the healthy and dysfunctional AD ecosystems. Deterministic processes predominated the community assembly regardless of AD ecosystem function, but stronger influences of stochastic processes were observed in dysfunctional AD ecosystems, which was likely attributable from the stronger effect of immigrants from the feedstock. As indicated by molecular ecological network analysis, the microbial network structures in the healthy AD ecosystems were more stable than those in the dysfunctional AD ecosystems. Although keystone taxa were different among the bioreactors, most of which played vital roles in organic hydrolysis/fermentation. To sum up, this study greatly improved our understanding of the relationships between microbiological traits and AD ecosystem function under thermophilic conditions, which could provide useful information to guide thermophilic AD (e.g., THP-AD) start-up and health diagnosis during operation.

Tracking the diversity and interaction of methanogens in the energy recovery process of a full-scale wastewater treatment plant.Methanogens have been significant for the achievement of carbon neutrality in wastewater treatment plants due to their crucial roles in the anaerobic digestion of sludge. Nevertheless, the phylogenetic diversity of methanogens and their versatile metabolism have been continuously investigated, the current scientific knowledge regarding these microbes appears inadequate and requires more evaluations. This study is considered an endeavor in which functional genes sequencing was used to reveal the diversity of methanogens in the sludge process of the wastewater treatment plant. The information obtained was substantially more than that employing 16s sequencing. The methanogenic microbial resources were appropriate to sustain a self-inoculated energy recovery with a potential ability to boost methane production. A constancy was observed in 16 S rRNA gene and mcrA gene sequencing results, where the bacterial or Methanosaeta concilii dominated community of DS (digest sludge) was distinct from the inoculum sources TS (total sludge), CTS (concentrated total sludge), and HTS (hydrolysis total sludge), indicating the independent development of DS. A quantitative cross-network was constructed by coupling the absolute quantify of 16 S rRNA and mcrA sequences. The Methanobacterium petrolearium actively interacted with bacteria in the DS community rather than the dominant species (Methanosaeta concilii). Moreover, the unclassified methanogens were identified to be significantly prevalent in all communities, suggesting that unknown methanogenic taxa might be imperative in accomplishing community functions. Collectively, the findings of this research study will shed light on the comprehensive knowledge of microbial communities, especially the methanogenic microbiota. This will further enhance the exploration of the phylogenetic diversity of methanogens and their corresponding impacts in energy recovery from wastewater treatment plants.

Reprint of Organic waste conversion through anaerobic digestion: A critical insight into the metabolic pathways and microbial interactions.Anaerobic digestion is a promising method for energy recovery through conversion of organic waste to biogas and other industrial valuables. However, to tap the full potential of anaerobic digestion, deciphering the microbial metabolic pathway activities and their underlying bioenergetics is required. In addition, the behavior of organisms in consortia along with the analytical abilities to kinetically measure their metabolic interactions will allow rational optimization of the process. This review aims to explore the metabolic bottlenecks of the microbial communities adopting latest advances of profiling and C tracer-based analysis using state of the art analytical platforms (GC, GC-MS, LC-MS, NMR). The review summarizes the phases of anaerobic digestion, the role of microbial communities, key process parameters of significance, syntrophic microbial interactions and the bottlenecks that are critical for optimal bioenergetics and enhanced production of valuables. Considerations into the designing of efficient synthetic microbial communities as well as the latest advances in capturing their metabolic cross talk will be highlighted. The review further explores how the presence of additives and inhibiting factors affect the metabolic pathways. The critical insight into the reaction mechanism covered in this review may be helpful to optimize and upgrade the anaerobic digestion system.

Novel insights from lignocellulosic waste to biogas through regulated dry-wet combined anaerobic digestion: Focusing on mining key microbes.Dry-wet combined anaerobic digestion is a novel approach for treating lignocellulosic waste by increasing the organic load of reactor while accelerating the conversion of organic acids. Here, we investigated the effect of regulated substrate ratios and initial pH in the dry acidogenesis stage on the bioconversion efficiency of dry-wet combined anaerobic digestion. Our data revealed microbial interactions and further identified key microbes based on microbial co-occurrence network analysis. On day three of acidification, the kinetic hydrolysis rate and acidification yield reached 1.66 and 60.07%, respectively; this was attributed to enhancement of the synergistic effect between Clostridiales and Methanosaeta, which increased the proportion of corn straw in the substrate or lowered the initial spray slurry pH to 5.5-6.5. With increased acidification capacity, acetoclastic methanogens were enriched in the wet methanogenesis stage; the syntrophic effect of Syntrophomonadales, Syntrophobacterales and Methanospirillum, meanwhile, was enhanced, leading to an overall improvement in biogas production.

Microbial co-occurrence network topological properties link with reactor parameters and reveal importance of low-abundance genera.Operational factors and microbial interactions affect the ecology in anaerobic digestion systems. From 12 lab-scale reactors operated under distinct engineering conditions, bacterial communities were found driven by temperature, while archaeal communities by both temperature and substrate properties. Combining the bacterial and archaeal community clustering patterns led to five sample groups (ambient, mesophilic low-solid-substrate, mesophilic, mesophilic co-digestion and thermophilic) for co-occurrence network analysis. Network topological properties were associated with substrate characteristics and hydrolysis-methanogenesis balance. The hydrolysis efficiency correlated (p < 0.05) with clustering coefficient positively and with normalized betweenness negatively. The influent particulate COD ratio and the relative differential hydrolysis-methanogenesis efficiency (D) correlated negatively with the average path length (p < 0.05). Individual genera's topological properties showed more connector genera in thermophilic network, representing stronger inter-module communication. Individual genera's normalized degree and betweenness revealed that lower-abundance genera (as low as 0.1%) could perform central hub roles and communication roles, maintaining the stability and functionality of the microbial community.

Organic waste conversion through anaerobic digestion: A critical insight into the metabolic pathways and microbial interactions.Anaerobic digestion is a promising method for energy recovery through conversion of organic waste to biogas and other industrial valuables. However, to tap the full potential of anaerobic digestion, deciphering the microbial metabolic pathway activities and their underlying bioenergetics is required. In addition, the behavior of organisms in consortia along with the analytical abilities to kinetically measure their metabolic interactions will allow rational optimization of the process. This review aims to explore the metabolic bottlenecks of the microbial communities adopting latest advances of profiling and C tracer-based analysis using state of the art analytical platforms (GC, GC-MS, LC-MS, NMR). The review summarizes the phases of anaerobic digestion, the role of microbial communities, key process parameters of significance, syntrophic microbial interactions and the bottlenecks that are critical for optimal bioenergetics and enhanced production of valuables. Considerations into the designing of efficient synthetic microbial communities as well as the latest advances in capturing their metabolic cross talk will be highlighted. The review further explores how the presence of additives and inhibiting factors affect the metabolic pathways. The critical insight into the reaction mechanism covered in this review may be helpful to optimize and upgrade the anaerobic digestion system.

[Microorganisms in the typical anaerobic digestion system of organic solid wastes: a review].The facultative anaerobic and strict anaerobic microorganisms enriched and acclimated during the anaerobic digestion process are crucial for the efficiency of the anaerobic digestion system. Most of the problems encountered during running anaerobic digestion processes could be effectively improved via stimulation of microbial metabolic activity. Benefited from the rapid development of microbiome techniques, deeper insights into the microbial diversity in anaerobic digestion systems, e.g. the microbe-microbe interactions and microbe-environment interactions, have been gained. A complex and intricate metabolic network exists in the anaerobic digestion system of solid organic wastes. However, little is known about these interactions and the underlying mechanisms. This review briefly summarized the representative interactions between microbial communities during anaerobic digestion process discovered to date. In addition, typical issues encountered during the anaerobic digestion of solid organic wastes and how microbes can tackle and alleviate these issues were discussed. Finally, future priorities on microbiome research were proposed based on present contribution of microbiome analysis in anaerobic digestion system.

Impact of the gut microecology on Campylobacter presence revealed by comparisons of the gut microbiota from chickens raised on litter or in individual cages.Poultry is the major reservoir of Campylobacter that contributes to human campylobacteriosis and threatens food safety. Litter contact has been linked to Campylobacter colonization, but the gut microecological impact underlying this link remains not fully clear. Here, we sought to investigate the impact of the gut microecology on the presence of Campylobacter by examining the microbiota in the duodenum, jejunum, ileum, ceca, and feces from chickens raised on commercial litter and in individual cages at 0-57 days of age.
Through litter contact, the presence of Campylobacter was found to benefit from microecological competition among Lactobacillus, Helicobacter, and genera that are halotolerant and aerobic or facultatively anaerobic in the upper intestine, such as Corynebacterium and Brachybacterium. The presence was also promoted by the increased abundance in obligate anaerobic fermentation microbes, especially members of the orders Clostridiales and Bacteroidales. The longitudinal analysis supported the vertical or pseudo-vertical transmission but suggested that colonization might occur immensely at 7-28 days of age. We observed a host genetic effect on the gut microecology, which might lead to increased heterogeneity of the microecological impact on Campylobacter colonization.
The findings advance the understanding of the gut microecological impact on Campylobacter presence in the chicken gut under conditions of litter contact and suggest that manipulations of the gut microecology, as well as the microbes identified in the Campylobacter association networks, might be important for the development of intervention strategies.

In vivo commensal control of Clostridioides difficile virulence.Leveraging systems biology approaches, we illustrate how metabolically distinct species of Clostridia protect against or worsen Clostridioides difficile infection in mice by modulating the pathogen's colonization, growth, and virulence to impact host survival. Gnotobiotic mice colonized with the amino acid fermenter Paraclostridium bifermentans survive infection with reduced disease severity, while mice colonized with the butyrate-producer, Clostridium sardiniense, succumb more rapidly. Systematic in vivo analyses revealed how each commensal alters the gut-nutrient environment to modulate the pathogen's metabolism, gene regulatory networks, and toxin production. Oral administration of P. bifermentans rescues conventional, clindamycin-treated mice from lethal C. difficile infection in a manner similar to that of monocolonized animals, thereby supporting the therapeutic potential of this commensal species. Our findings lay the foundation for mechanistically informed therapies to counter C. difficile disease using systems biology approaches to define host-commensal-pathogen interactions in vivo.

Revealing the link between evolution of electron transfer capacity of humic acid and key enzyme activities during anaerobic digestion.Humic acid (HA) is an important active compound formed during anaerobic digestion process, with a complex structure and dynamic electron transfer capacity (ETC). However, the mechanisms by which these macromolecular organic compounds dynamically interact with the microbial anaerobic digestion process at different operating temperatures are still unclear. In this study, the link between the evolution of the ETC of HAs and the microbial community under mesophilic and thermophilic conditions was investigated. The results showed an increasing trend in the ETC of HAs in both mesophilic (671-1479 μmol gHA) and thermophilic (774-1506 μmol gHA) anaerobic digestion (AD) until day 25. The ETC was positively correlated with the bacterial community of hydrolytic and acidogenic phases, but negatively correlated with the archaeal community of the methanogenic phase. Furthermore, the relationship between ETC and key enzyme activity was explored using a co-occurrence network analysis. HAs revealed a high potential to promote key enzyme activities during hydrolysis (amylase and protease) and acidification (acetate kinase, butyrate kinase, and phosphotransacetylase) while inhibiting the key enzyme activity in the methanogenic phase during the anaerobic digestion process. Moreover, HAs formed under thermophilic conditions had a greater influence on key enzyme activities than those formed under mesophilic conditions. This study advances our understanding of the mechanisms underlying the influence of HAs on anaerobic digestion performance.

Biological, geological and chemical effects of oxygen injection in underground gas storage aquifers in the setting of biomethane deployment.The last few years have seen the proliferation of anaerobic digestion plants to produce biomethane. Oxygen (O) traces added to biogas during the desulfurization process are co-injected in the gas network and can be stored in Underground Gas Storage (UGS). However, there are no data available for the undesirable effects of O on these anoxic environments, especially on deep aquifers. In addition to mineral alteration, O can have an impact on the anaerobic autochthonous microbial life. In our study, the storage conditions of an UGS aquifer were reproduced in a high-pressure reactor and bio-geo-chemical interactions between the aqueous, gas and solid phases were studied. Sulfate was depleted from the liquid phase for three consecutive times during the first 130 days of incubation reproducing the storage conditions (36 °C, 60 bar, methane with 1% CO). Sulfate-reducers, such as Desulfovibrionaceae, were identified from the high-pressure system. Simulations with PHREEQC were used to determine the thermodynamic equilibrium to confirm any gas consumption. CO quantities decreased in the gas phase, suggesting its use as carbon source by microbial life. Benzene and toluene, hydrocarbons found in traces and known to be biodegradable in storages, were monitored and a decrease of toluene was revealed and associated to the Peptococcaceae family. Afterwards, O was added as 1% of the gas phase, corresponding to the maximum quantity found in biomethane after desulfurization process. Re-oxidation of sulfide to sulfate was observed along with the end of sulfate reducing activity and toluene biodegradation and the disappearance of most of the community. H surprisingly appeared and accumulated as soon as hydrogenotrophic sulfate-reducers decreased. H would be produced via the necromass fermentation accomplished by microorganisms able to resist the oxic conditions of 4.42·10 mol.Kgw of O. The solid phase composed essentially of quartz, presented no remarkable changes.

Regulating the dechlorination and methanogenesis synchronously to achieve a win-win remediation solution for γ-hexachlorocyclohexane polluted anaerobic environment.The wish for rapid degradation of chlorinated organic pollutants along with the increase concern with respect to greenhouse effect and bioenergy methane production have created urgent needs to explore synchronous regulation approach. Microbial electrolysis cell was established under four degressive cathode potential settings (from -0.15V to -0.60V) to regulate γ-hexachlorocyclohexane (γ-HCH) reduction while CH cumulation in this study. The synchronous facilitation of γ-HCH reduction and CH cumulation was occurred in -0.15V treatment while the facilitation of γ-HCH reductive removal together with the inhibition of CH cumulation was showed in -0.30V treatment. Electrochemical patterns via cyclic voltammetry and morphological performances via scanning electron microscopy illustrated bioelectrostimulation promoted redox reactions and helped to construct mature biofilms located on bioelectrodes. Also, bioelectrostimulated regulation pronouncedly affected the bacteria and archaeal communities and subsequently assembled distinctly core sensitive responders across bioanode, biocathode and plankton. Clostridum, Longilinea and Methanothrix relatively accumulated in the plankton, and Cupriavidus and Methanospirillum, and Perimonas and Nonoarcheaum in biocathode and bioanode, respectively; while Pseudomonas, Stenotrophomonas, Methanoculleus and Methanosarcina were diffusely enriched. Microbial interactions in the ecological network were more complicated in -0.15V and -0.30V cathodic potential treatments, coincident with the increasement of γ-HCH reduction. The co-existence between putative dechlorinators and methanogens was less significant in -0.30V treatment when compared to that in -0.15V treatment, relevant with the variations of CH cumulation. In all, this study firstly corroborated the availability to synchronously regulate γ-HCH reductive removal and methanogenesis. Besides, it paves an advanced approach controlling γ-HCH reduction in cooperation with CH cumulation, of which to achieve γ-HCH degradation facilitation along with biogas (CH) production promotion with -0.15V cathode potential during anaerobic γ-HCH contaminated wastewater digestion, or to realize γ-HCH degradation facilitation with the inhibition of CH emission with -0.30V cathode potential for an all-win remediation in γ-HCH polluted anaerobic environment such as paddy soil.

Insight into the effect of N-acyl-homoserine lactones-mediated quorum sensing on the microbial social behaviors in a UASB with the regulation of alkalinity.N-acyl-homoserine lactones (AHLs)-mediated quorum sensing (QS) has been reported as the inducers of microbial social behaviors in anaerobic digestion (AD) processes. However, it is not well understood that how to intentionally change the secretion of AHLs by conventional engineering control such as the regulation of alkalinity. The present research investigated the effect of endogenous AHLs-mediated QS on the microbial social behaviors in an upflow anaerobic sludge bed (UASB) reactor with the influent alkalinity decreased from 2800 mg/L to 700 mg/L by stages. The results showed that the alkalinity of 1800-2200 mg/L was more favorable for the AD in the UASB, with an excellent specific methanogenic activity (SMA) and better microbial aggregation statuses. The alkalinity out of the favorable alkalinity range would decrease the SMA with the accumulation of VFAs in the reactor. It was found that signal molecule C-HSL was always the dominant AHL in the UASB along with the decrease of influent alkalinity, while 3-oxo-C-HSL, 3-oxo-C-HSL and C-HSL were remarkably improved only within the favorable range of alkalinity. Pearson correlation concluded that the dominant signal molecule C-HSL was the specific AHL in enhancing the synthesis of extracellular polysaccharide and the metabolism of acidogens. The co-occurrence network revealed that Mesotoga, Sulfurospirillum and Methanoregula were the key hubs in the microbial interaction network, and the AHLs-mediated QS indirectly facilitated the methanogenic metabolism. The present work provided a revealing insight into the effect of AHLs-mediated QS on the microbial social behaviors in AD process with the regulation of alkalinity.

Studying Microbial Communities through Co-Occurrence Network Analyses during Processes of Waste Treatment and in Organically Amended Soils: A Review.Organic wastes have the potential to be used as soil organic amendments after undergoing a process of stabilization such as composting or as a resource of renewable energy by anaerobic digestion (AD). Both composting and AD are well-known, eco-friendly approaches to eliminate and recycle massive amounts of wastes. Likewise, the application of compost amendments and digestate (the by-product resulting from AD) has been proposed as an effective way of improving soil fertility. The study of microbial communities involved in these waste treatment processes, as well as in organically amended soils, is key in promoting waste resource efficiency and deciphering the features that characterize microbial communities under improved soil fertility conditions. To move beyond the classical analyses of metataxonomic data, the application of co-occurrence network approaches has shown to be useful to gain insights into the interactions among the members of a microbial community, to identify its keystone members and modelling the environmental factors that drive microbial network patterns. Here, we provide an overview of essential concepts for the interpretation and construction of co-occurrence networks and review the features of microbial co-occurrence networks during the processes of composting and AD and following the application of the respective end products (compost and digestate) into soil.

Long-term in situ bioelectrochemical monitoring of biohythane process: Metabolic interactions and microbial evolution.Microbial stability and evolution are a critical aspect for biosensors, especially in detecting dynamic and emerging anaerobic biohythane production. In this study, two upflow air-cathode chamber microbial fuel cells (UMFCs) were developed for in situ monitoring of the biohydrogen and biomethane reactors under a COD range of 1000-6000 mg/L and 150-1000 mg/L, respectively. Illumina MiSeq sequencing evidenced the dramatic shift of dominant microbial communities in UMFCs from hydrolytic and acidification bacteria (Clostridiaceae_1, Ruminococcaceae, Peptostreptococcaceae) to acetate-oxidizing bacteria (Synergistaceae, Dysgonomonadaceae, Spirochaetaceae). In addition, exoelectroactive bacteria evaluated from Enterobacteriaceae and Burkholderiaceae to Desulfovibrionaceae and Propionibacteriaceae. Especially, Hydrogenotrophic methanogens (Methanobacteriaceae) were abundant at 93.41% in UMFC (for monitoring hydrogen reactor), which was speculated to be a major metabolic pathway for methane production. Principal component analysis revealed a similarity in microbial structure between UMFCs and methane bioreactors. Microbial network analysis suggested a more stable community structure of UMFCs with 205 days' operation.

Variation of volatile fatty acid oxidation and methane production during the bioaugmentation of anaerobic digestion system: Microbial community analysis revealing the influence of microbial interactions on metabolic pathways.Anaerobic digestion (AD) is widely used on waste treatment for its great capability of organic degradation and energy recovery. Accumulation of volatile fatty acids (VFAs) caused by impact loadings often leads to the acidification and failure of AD systems. Bioaugmentation is a promising way to accelerate VFA degradation but the succession of microbial communities usually caused unpredictable consequences. In this study, we used the sludge previously acclimated with VFAs for the bioaugmentation of an acidified anaerobic digestion system and increased the methane yield by 8.03-9.59 times. To see how the succession of microbial communities affected bioaugmentation, dual-chamber devices separated by membrane filters were used to control the interactions between the acidified and acclimated sludges. The experimental group with separated sludges showed significant advantages of VFA consumption (5.5 times less final VFA residue than the control), while the group with mixed sludge produced more methane (4.0 times higher final methane yield than the control). Microbial community analysis further highlighted the great influences of microbial interaction on the differentiation of metabolic pathways. Acetoclastic methanogens from the acclimated sludge acted as the main contributors to pH neutralization and methane production during the early phase of bioaugmentation, and maintained active in the mixed sludge but degenerated in the separated sludges where interactions between sludge microbiotas were limited. Instead, syntrophic butyrate and acetate oxidation coupled with nitrate and sulfate reduction was enriched in the separated sludges, which lowered the methane conversion rate and would cause the failure of bioaugmentation. Our study revealed the importance of microbial interactions and the functionality of enriched microbes, as well as the potential strategies to optimize the durability and efficiency of bioaugmentation.

Defluviitalea raffinosedens Hungateiclostridium thermocellum
Importance of  for Hydrolytic Biomass Degradation in Co-Culture with .Bacterial hydrolysis of polysaccharides is an important step for the production of sustainable energy, for example during the conversion of plant biomass to methane-rich biogas. Previously,  was identified as cellulolytic key player in thermophilic biogas microbiomes with a great frequency as an accompanying organism. The aim of this study was to physiologically characterize a recently isolated co-culture of  and the saccharolytic bacterium  from a laboratory-scale biogas fermenter. The characterization focused on cellulose breakdown by applying the measurement of cellulose hydrolysis, production of metabolites, and the activity of secreted enzymes. Substrate degradation and the production of volatile metabolites was considerably enhanced when both organisms acted synergistically. The metabolic properties of  have been studied well in the past. To predict the role of  in this bacterial duet, the genome of  was sequenced for the first time. Concomitantly, to deduce the prevalence of  in anaerobic digestion, taxonomic composition and transcriptional activity of different biogas microbiomes were analyzed in detail.  was abundant and metabolically active in reactor operating at highly efficient process conditions, supporting the importance of this organism for the hydrolysis of the raw substrate.

Antibiotic Use Associated With Risk of Colorectal Polyps in a Nationwide Study.Use of antibiotics affects the composition of the microbiome and might affect development of colorectal polyps, which are precursors to colorectal cancer.
We performed a nested case-control study in Sweden of 45,744 patients with a colorectal polyp (cases) in the nationwide gastrointestinal ESPRESSO histopathology cohort, using unaffected full siblings as controls (n = 93,307). Polyps were classified by morphology SnoMed codes into conventional adenomas and serrated polyps. Through linkage to the Prescribed Drug Register, we assessed use and cumulative dispensations of antibiotic until 1 year prior to polyp diagnosis for cases and their sibling controls.
During a median study period of 6.9 years, compared with non-users, users of antibiotics (including 28,884 cases [63.1%] and 53,222 sibling controls [57.0%]) had a higher risk of colorectal polyps (odds ratio [OR], 1.08; 95% CI, 1.04-1.13). Risk increased with higher number of dispensations (OR for ≥ 6 dispensations, 1.33; 95% CI, 1.25-1.43) (P < .0001). We observed a stronger association with polyps for broad-spectrum antibiotics (OR comparing users to non-users, 1.23; 95% CI, 1.18-1.29) than for narrow-spectrum antibiotics (OR, 1.05; 95% CI, 1.01-1.10), and for tetracyclines and quinolones (OR, 1.21) than penicillin and other classes (ORs ranged from 1.04 to 1.16). The findings remained robust with several sensitivity analyses, including use of a 2-year lead-in period for antibiotic assessment and correction for misclassification in controls. Use of broad-spectrum antibiotics was more strongly associated with risk of serrated polyps (OR, 1.29; 95% CI, 1.21-1.38) compared with risk of conventional adenomas (OR, 1.17; 95% CI, 1.11-1.24). We found no differences in risk of colon vs rectal polyps with antibiotic use (P > .10). We found stronger associations for younger (<50 years) vs older adults (≥50 years) for users of quinolones, sulfonamides, trimethoprim, and cephalosporins (P < .001).
In a nationwide case-control study in Sweden, after accounting for hereditary and early life environmental factors, antibiotic use was associated with increased risk of colorectal polyps. Our findings indicate a role for intestinal dysbiosis in early stages of colorectal carcinogenesis.

Revealing the variations in physicochemical, morphological, fractal, and rheological properties of digestate during the mesophilic anaerobic digestion of iron-rich waste activated sludge.Dosing of iron (Fe)-salts in sewers to control odour and corrosion problems have proven to be effective on phosphate and sulfide removal in downstream treatment units. However, the interaction of Fe with sludge may impact the sludge properties during wastewater treatment and sludge digestion. Herein, we investigated the downstream impacts of sewer-dosed Fe-salt on key digestate properties including digestate dewaterability. For this, Fe-salt was dosed to a sewer reactor and resultant iron-rich waste activated sludge (Fe-WAS) was digested in an anaerobic digester (AD) in the experimental line of integrated laboratory system running in parallel to a control system. Iron containing and non-iron containing digestates were sourced from the respective AD reactors of experimental and control lines. Results showed improved dewaterability in iron containing digestate than non-iron containing digestate, which was attributed to the variations in key digestate properties. Compared to non-iron containing digestate, iron containing digestate exhibited the decreased contents of bound water, soluble extracellular polymeric substances (S-EPS), protein, polysaccharide, and monovalent-to-divalent (M/D) cations ratio. Likewise, we observed the increased mean particle size (D50) for iron containing digestate than the non-iron containing digestate, but fractal dimension (D) values were comparable. Besides, iron containing digestate exhibited a reduced degree of thixotropy, relative sludge network strength, viscosity, yield stress, flow stress, and storage/loss/complex (G'/G''/G∗) moduli but increased creep compliance and shear strain (%) than non-iron containing digestate. The combined synergistic effects of such favorable changes amongst the key properties of iron containing digestate, might have been responsible for improving it's dewaterability.

Mangifera indica
Changes in Intestinal Microbiota and Predicted Metabolic Pathways During Colonic Fermentation of Mango ( L.)-Based Bar Indigestible Fraction.Mango ( L.) peel and pulp are a source of dietary fiber (DF) and phenolic compounds (PCs) that constituent part of the indigestible fraction (IF). This fraction reaches the colon and acts as a carbon and energy source for intestinal microbiota. The effect of mango IF on intestinal microbiota during colonic fermentation is unknown. In this study, the isolated IF of a novel 'Ataulfo' mango-based bar (snack) UV-C irradiated and non-irradiated (UVMangoB and MangoB) were fermented. Colonic fermentation occurred in vitro under chemical-enzymatic, semi-anaerobic, batch culture and controlled pH colonic conditions. Changes in the structure of fecal microbiota were analyzed by 16s rRNA gene Illumina MiSeq sequencing. The community´s functional capabilities were determined in silico. The MangoB and UVMangoB increased the presence of , , , , , , , ,  ,  and  genera. The alpha indexes showed a decrease in microbial diversity after 6 h of colonic fermentation. The coordinates analysis indicated any differences between irradiated and non-irradiated bar. The metabolic prediction demonstrated that MangoB and UVMangoB increase the microbiota carbohydrate metabolism pathway. This study suggests that IF of mango-based bar induced beneficial changes on microbial ecology and metabolic pathway that could be promissory to prevention or treatment of metabolic dysbiosis. However, in vivo interventions are necessary to confirm the interactions between microbiota modulating and intestinal beneficial effects.

Hymenolepis diminuta
Worm expulsion is independent of alterations in composition of the colonic bacteria that occur during experimental -infection in mice.The tapeworm  fails to establish in mice. Given the potential for helminth-bacteria interaction in the gut and the influence that commensal bacteria exert on host immunity, we tested if worm expulsion was related to alterations in the gut microbiota. Specific pathogen-free (SPF) mice, treated with broad-spectrum antibiotics, or germ-free wild-type mice were infected with , gut bacterial composition assessed by 16S rRNA gene sequencing, and worm counts, blood eosinophilia, goblet cells, splenic IL-4, -5 and -10, and colonic cytokines/chemokines mRNA were assessed. Effects of a PBS-soluble extract of adult  on bacterial growth  was tested. -infected mice displayed increased α and β diversity in colonic mucosa-associated and fecal bacterial communities, characterized by increased Lachnospiraceae and clostridium cluster XIVa.  analysis revealed that the worm extract promoted the growth of anaerobic bacteria on M2GSC agar. infection was accompanied by increased Th2 immune responses, and colon from infected mice had increased levels of IL-10, IL-25, Muc2, trefoil factor 3, and β2-defensin mRNA. SPF-mice treated with antibiotics, or germ-free mice, expelled  with kinetics similar to control SPF mice. In both settings, measurements of Th2-immune responses were not significantly different across the groups. Thus, while infection with  results in subtle but distinct changes to the colonic microbiota, we have no evidence to support an essential role for gut bacteria in the expulsion of the worm from the mouse host.

Progressive Microbial Community Networks with Incremental Organic Loading Rates Underlie Higher Anaerobic Digestion Performance.Although biotic interactions among members of microbial communities have been conceived to be crucial for community assembly, it remains unclear how changes in environmental conditions affect microbial interaction and consequently system performance. Here, we adopted a random matrix theory-based network analysis to explore microbial interactions in triplicate anaerobic digestion (AD) systems, which is widely applied for organic pollutant treatments. The digesters were operated with incremental organic loading rates (OLRs) from 1.0 g volatile solids (VS)/liter/day to 1.3 g VS/liter/day and then to 1.5 g VS/liter/day, which increased VS removal and methane production proportionally. Higher resource availability led to networks with higher connectivity and shorter harmonic geodesic distance, suggestive of more intense microbial interactions and quicker responses to environmental changes. Strikingly, a number of topological properties of microbial network showed significant ( < 0.05) correlation with AD performance (i.e., methane production, biogas production, and VS removal). When controlling for environmental parameters (e.g., total ammonia, pH, and the VS load), node connectivity, especially that of the methanogenic archaeal network, still correlated with AD performance. Last, we identified the , , , and  taxa and an unclassified  taxon as keystone nodes of the network. AD is a biological process widely used for effective waste treatment throughout the world. Biotic interactions among microbes are critical to the assembly and functioning of the microbial community, but the response of microbial interactions to environmental changes and their influence on AD performance are still poorly understood. Using well-replicated time series data of 16S rRNA gene amplicons and functional gene arrays, we constructed random matrix theory-based association networks to characterize potential microbial interactions with incremental OLRs. We demonstrated striking linkage between network topological features of methanogenic archaea and AD functioning independent of environmental parameters. As the intricate balance of multiple microbial functional groups is responsible for methane production, our results suggest that microbial interaction may be an important, previously unrecognized mechanism in determining AD performance.

Development of an alkaline/acid pre-treatment and anaerobic digestion (APAD) process for methane generation from waste activated sludge.Anaerobic sludge digesters are biorefineries for energy recovery from waste activated sludge (WAS) via methane production, in which disintegration of floc structure and microbial cells is a major challenge in releasing extracellular polymeric substances (EPS) and cytoplasmic macromolecules for subsequent hydrolysis and fermentation. Here, we developed a new process combining alkaline/acid pre-treatments and anaerobic digestion (APAD) to improve sludge digestion. Both alkaline and acid pre-treatments effectively disintegrated the floc structure and microbial cells to release sludge organic contents. Under the optimized alkaline/acid pre-treatment condition, carbon removal achieved 52.8 ± 1.7% in APAD digesters, in contrast to 30.9 ± 2.2% and 42.4 ± 1.6% in anaerobic digesters fed with fresh WAS (control-AD) and thermal pre-treated sludge (thermal-AD), respectively. Both alkaline/acid and thermal pre-treatments largely shifted sludge community composition and function, but in distinct ways, possibly due to their different sludge constitutes (i.e., dissolved organic matter and NaCl). Correspondingly, microbial network analysis identified three modules with varied keystone taxa and interaction patterns in the three digesters. Life cycle assessment showed the comparable environmental impacts of APAD, thermal-AD and control-AD. In all, this study provided a new solution for WAS treatment and insights into impact of sludge pre-treatments on sludge digestion microbiome.

Different inhibitory mechanisms of chlortetracycline and enrofloxacin on mesophilic anaerobic degradation of propionate.In anaerobic digestion, propionate is a key intermediate whose degradation is thermodynamically challenging and accumulation is detrimental to the process. Many wastewater streams contain antibiotics due to its globally increasing use, and these compounds can inhibit methane production. However, the effect of antibiotics on propionate degradation in anaerobic digestion remains unclear. In this study, the influence of two antibiotics (chlortetracycline [CTC] and enrofloxacin [EFX]) on biogas production and mesophilic propionate-degrading microbial community was investigated. CTC strongly repressed propionate oxidation, acetate utilization, and methane production, while EFX only inhibited propionate oxidation and methane production to a lesser extent. Microbial community analyses showed that syntrophic propionate-oxidizing bacteria (SPOB) Syntrophobacter had strong tolerance to both CTC and EFX. CTC inhibition mainly acted on the activity of acetate-oxidizing bacteria (Mesotoga, Geovibrio, Tepidanaerobacter, unclassified Bacteroidetes, and unclassified Clostridia) and acetoclastic methanogen, while EFX inhibition applied to the SPOB Smithella and acetoclastic methanogen. Network analysis further indicated that more complicated correlation among bacterial genera occurred in CTC treatments. These results suggested that CTC and EFX inhibited propionate degradation via different mechanisms, which was the result of joint action by antibiotics and microbial interactions.

Microbial community in in-situ waste sludge anaerobic digestion with alkalization for enhancement of nutrient recovery and energy generation.Microbial community in in-situ waste sludge anaerobic digestion with alkalization for enhancement of nutrient recovery and energy generation was studied. Firmicutes, Proteobacteria and Bacteroidetes phylum became the majority in the microbial community, especially Firmicutes showed the predominate role in the community due to its thick cell wall structure, potential ability hydrolysis and hydrogenogenic acidogenesis. Anaerobic digestion with alkalization caused the obvious microbial diversity decrease, and over 50% of minority bacteria grew up in quantity from original sludge. Phylum of Firmicutes developed by themselves having few interactions with other bacteria, partly contributing to its rapid growth in anaerobic digestion with alkalization. The decrease of hydrocarbon degradation, and the increase of both fermentation and reductive acetogenesis in microbial community, indicating the promotion of short chain fatty acids production, especially acetic acid which is the key intermediate products for nutrient recovery and energy generation.

Recyclable magnetite-enhanced electromethanogenesis for biomethane production from wastewater.Improving the yield and methane content of biogas is of great concern for wastewater treatment by anaerobic digestion. Herein we developed a nanomagnetite-enhanced electromethanogenesis (EM) process for the first time, the sustainable utilization of which improved the biomethane production rate from dairy wastewater. The maximum CH production rate in the EM process is 2.3 ± 0.3-fold higher than it is in the conventional methanogenesis (CM) process, and it is accompanied by an almost delay-free start-up. The technical-economic evaluation revealed that an 82.1 ± 5.0% greater net benefit was obtained in the third generation of the EM process compared with the CM process. The improved methanogenesis was attributed to the formation of dense planktonic cell co-aggregates that are triggered by nanomagnetite, which facilitated the interspecies electron exchange during acetoclastic methanogenesis. Simultaneously, a cathode biofilm with high viability and catalytic activity was also formed in the EM process that decreased the biofilm resistance and facilitated the electron transfer during electromethanogenesis. This study is a worthwhile attempt to combine recyclable conductive materials with an electromethanogenesis process for wastewater treatment, and it effectively achieves energy recovery with high stability and cost-effectiveness.

Lateral Acquisitions Repeatedly Remodel the Oxygen Detoxification Pathway in Diplomonads and Relatives.Oxygen and reactive oxygen species (ROS) are important stress factors for cells because they can oxidize many large molecules. Fornicata, a group of flagellated protists that includes diplomonads, have anaerobic metabolism but are still able to tolerate fluctuating levels of oxygen. We identified 25 protein families putatively involved in detoxification of oxygen and ROS in this group using a bioinformatics approach and propose how these interact in an oxygen detoxification pathway. These protein families were divided into a central oxygen detoxification pathway and accessory pathways for the synthesis of nonprotein thiols. We then used a phylogenetic approach to investigate the evolutionary origin of the components of this putative pathway in Diplomonadida and other Fornicata species. Our analyses suggested that the diplomonad ancestor was adapted to low-oxygen levels, was able to reduce O2 to H2O in a manner similar to extant diplomonads, and was able to synthesize glutathione and l-cysteine. Several genes involved in the pathway have complex evolutionary histories and have apparently been repeatedly acquired through lateral gene transfer and subsequently lost. At least seven genes were acquired independently in different Fornicata lineages, leading to evolutionary convergences. It is likely that acquiring these oxygen detoxification proteins helped anaerobic organisms (like the parasitic Giardia intestinalis) adapt to low-oxygen environments (such as the digestive tract of aerobic hosts).

A systematic approach re-analyzing the effects of temperature disturbance on the microbial community of mesophilic anaerobic digestion.Microbial communities are key drivers of ecosystem processes, but their behavior in disturbed environments is difficult to measure. How microbial community composition and function respond disturbances is a common challenge in biomedical, environmental, agricultural, and bioenergy research. A novel way to solve this problem is to use a systems-level perspective and describe microbial communities as networks. Based on a mesophilic anaerobic digestion system of swine manure as a tool, we propose a simple framework to investigate changes in microbial communities via compositions, metabolic pathways, genomic properties and interspecies relationships in response to a long-term temperature disturbance. After temperature disturbance, microbial communities tend towards a competitive interaction network with higher GC content and larger genome size. Based on microbial interaction networks, communities responded to the disturbance by showing a transition from acetotrophic (Methanotrichaceae and Methanosarcinaceae) to methylotrophic methanogens (Methanomassiliicoccaceae and Methanobacteriaceae) and a fluctuation in rare biosphere taxa. To conclude, this study may be important for exploring the dynamic relationships between disturbance and microbial communities as a whole, as well as for providing researchers with a better understanding of how changes in microbial communities relate to ecological processes.

Cell factories converting lactate and acetate to butyrate: Clostridium butyricum and microbial communities from dark fermentation bioreactors.Interactions between microorganisms during specific steps of anaerobic digestion determine metabolic pathways in bioreactors and consequently the efficiency of fermentation processes. This study focuses on conversion of lactate and acetate to butyrate by bacteria of dark fermentation. The recently recognized flavin-based electron bifurcation as a mode of energy coupling by anaerobes increases our knowledge of anaerobic lactate oxidation and butyrate formation.
Microbial communities from dark fermentation bioreactors or pure culture of Clostridium butyricum are able to convert lactate and acetate to butyrate in batch experiments. The ability of C. butyricum to transform lactate and acetate to butyrate was shown for the first time, with ethanol identified as an additional end product of this process. A search for genes encoding EtfAB complexes and their gene neighbourhood in C. butyricum and other bacteria capable of lactate and acetate conversion to butyrate as well as butyrate-producers only and the lactate oxidiser Acetobacterium woodii, revealed that the Etf complexes involved in (i) lactate oxidation and (ii) butyrate synthesis, form separate clusters. There is a more extent similarity between Etf subunits that are involved in lactate oxidation in various species (e.g. A. woodii and C. butyricum) than between the different etf gene products within the same species of butyrate producers. A scheme for the metabolic pathway of lactate and acetate transformation to butyrate in C. butyricum was constructed.
Studies on the conversion of lactate and acetate to butyrate by microbial communities from dark fermentation bioreactors or Clostridium butyricum suggest that a phenomenon analogous to cross-feeding of lactate in gastrointestinal tract also occurs in hydrogen-yielding reactors. A scheme of lactate and acetate transformation pathway is proposed, based on the example of C. butyricum, which employs flavin-based electron bifurcation. This process utilizes electron-transferring flavoprotein (Etf) complexes specific for (i) lactate oxidation and (ii) butyrate formation. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that such complexes are encoded in the genomes of other bacteria capable of lactate and acetate conversion to butyrate. These findings contribute significantly to our understanding of the metabolic pathways and symbiotic interactions between bacteria during the acidogenic step of anaerobic digestion.

Organic overloading affects the microbial interactions during anaerobic digestion in sewage sludge reactors.There is still a lack of information about microbial interactions of anaerobic digestion microbiome during process disturbance which limits our ability to predict the mechanisms that drive community dynamics on these events. This paper aims to determine how an organic overloading affects these interactions and to characterize in detail the microbiome structure and diversity in sewage sludge anaerobic reactors during an acidosis event. Two identical sewage sludge anaerobic reactors were subjected to an organic loading shock by adding glycerol waste. As consequence, volatile fatty acids accumulated after only 24 h (up to 2.5 g/L) while Bacteroidales and Methanomicrobiales became displaced by Firmicutes and Methanosaeta sp, showing that reactor acidosis can occur without an immediate decline of this methanogen. Network analysis revealed 9 clusters of co-occurring microorganisms with different behaviors during overloading. At first, Veillonellaceae family, the main glycerol degrading, associated with Candidatus Cloacimonetes, volatile fatty acids fermenters, increased their relative abundance in detriment of the syntrophic bacteria; although as conditions become more acidic, these groups were displaced by other fermenters like Porphyromonadaceae and Chitinophagaceae. Eventually, the methanogenesis failed 72 h after organic overloading, when pH reached values lower than 6. Overall, our results showed a succession of functionally redundant microorganisms, most likely because of niche specialization during organic overloading. The detailed temporal analysis elucidated the processes governing the dynamics anaerobic digestion microbiome, a knowledge required to develop anaerobic digestion management strategies based on its microbiome during process disturbances.

Active and total microbial community dynamics and the role of functional genes bamA and mcrA during anaerobic digestion of phenol and p-cresol.The aim of the present work was to investigate the dynamics of microbial community at DNA and RNA level and the role of bamA and mcrA gene during anaerobic digestion of phenol and p-cresol. Anaerobic digestion was conducted in batch reactors and microbial community dynamics was analysed. Results showed that active microbial community was quite dissimilar in comparison to the total microbial community. Syntrophorhabdus and Bacillus were the dominant active bacterial genera whereas Methanosaeta together with Methanobacterium showed the highest potential activity in the Archaea domain indicating a relevant role of these microorganisms in the anaerobic process. Ecological Networks revealed dissimilar interactions at DNA and RNA level, being the latter a better descriptor of the known roles of dominant OTUs. QRT-PCR results showed that expression of bamA gene correlated positively with instantaneous degradation rate proving for first time its functionality and its relationship with the kinetics of the process.

Organic loading rate and hydraulic retention time shape distinct ecological networks of anaerobic digestion related microbiome.Understanding of how anaerobic digestion (AD)-related microbiomes are constructed by operational parameters or their interactions within the biochemical process is limited. Using high-throughput sequencing and molecular ecological network analysis, this study shows the succession of AD-related microbiome hosting diverse members of the phylum Actinobacteria, Bacteroidetes, Euryarchaeota, and Firmicutes, which were affected by organic loading rate (OLR) and hydraulic retention time (HRT). OLR formed finer microbial network modules than HRT (12 vs. 6), suggesting the further subdivision of functional components. Biomarkers were also identified in OLR or HRT groups (e.g. the family Actinomycetaceae, Methanosaetaceae and Aminiphilaceae). The most pair-wise link between Firmicutes and biogas production indicates the keystone members based on network features can be considered as markers in the regulation of AD. A set of 40% species ("core microbiome") were similar across different digesters. Such noteworthy overlap of microbiomes indicates they are generalists in maintaining the ecological stability of digesters.

Long-term high-solids anaerobic digestion of food waste: Effects of ammonia on process performance and microbial community.A long-term high solids anaerobic digestion of food waste was conducted to identify microbial mechanisms of ammonia inhibition during digestion and to clarify correlations between ammonia accumulation, microbial community dynamics (diversity, composition, and interactions), and process stability. Results show that the effects of ammonia on process performance and microbial community were indirectly caused by volatile fatty acid accumulation. Excess free ammonia blocked acetate metabolism, leading to process instability. Accumulated acetate caused feedback inhibition at the acetogenesis stage, which resulted in considerable accumulation of propionate, valerate, and other long-chain fatty acids. This high concentration of volatile fatty acids reduced the abundance of syntrophic acetogenic bacteria and allowed hydrolytic fermentative bacteria to dominate. The normally interactive and orderly metabolic network was broken, which further exacerbated the process instability. These results improve the understanding of microbial mechanisms which contribute to process instability and provide guidance for the microbial management of anaerobic digesters.

Designing Reactor Microbiomes for Chemical Production from Organic Waste.Microorganisms are responsible for biochemical cycles and therefore play essential roles in the environment. By using omics approaches and network analysis to understand the interaction and cooperation within mixed microbial communities, it would be possible to engineer microbiomes in fermentation and digestion reactors to convert organic waste into valuable products.

Omics of bifidobacteria: research and insights into their health-promoting activities.Members of the genus  include gut commensals that are particularly abundant among the microbial communities residing in the gut of healthy breast-fed infants, where their presence has been linked to many beneficial host effects. Next-generation DNA sequencing and comparative and functional genome methodologies have been shown to be particularly useful in exploring the diversity of this genus. These combined approaches have allowed the identification of genetic features related to bifidobacterial establishment in the gut, involving host-microbe as well as microbe-microbe interactions. Among these, proteinaceous structures, which protrude from the bacterial surface, i.e. pili or fimbriae, and exopolysaccharidic cell surface layers or capsules represent crucial features that assist in their colonization and persistence in the gut. As bifidobacteria are colonizers of the large intestine, they have to be able to cope with various sources of osmotic, oxidative, bile and acid stress during their transit across the gastric barrier and the small intestine. Bifidobacterial genomes thus encode various survival mechanisms, such as molecular chaperones and efflux pumps, to overcome such challenges. Bifidobacteria represent part of an anaerobic gut community, and feed on nondigestible carbohydrates through a specialized fermentative metabolic pathway, which in turn produces growth substrates for other members of the gut community. Conversely, bifidobacteria may also be dependent on other (bifido)bacteria to access host- and diet-derived glycans, and these complex co-operative interactions, based on resource sharing and cross-feeding strategies, represent powerful driving forces that shape gut microbiota composition.

12
Microbial Metabolic Networks at the Mucus Layer Lead to Diet-Independent Butyrate and Vitamin B Production by Intestinal Symbionts.has evolved to specialize in the degradation and utilization of host mucus, which it may use as the sole source of carbon and nitrogen. Mucus degradation and fermentation by  are known to result in the liberation of oligosaccharides and subsequent production of acetate, which becomes directly available to microorganisms in the vicinity of the intestinal mucosa. Coculturing experiments of  with non-mucus-degrading butyrate-producing bacteria , , and  resulted in syntrophic growth and production of butyrate. In addition, we demonstrate that the production of pseudovitamin B by  results in production of propionate by , which suggests that this syntrophy is indeed bidirectional. These data are proof of concept for syntrophic and other symbiotic microbe-microbe interactions at the intestinal mucosal interface. The observed metabolic interactions between  and butyrogenic bacterial taxa support the existence of colonic vitamin and butyrate production pathways that are dependent on host glycan production and independent of dietary carbohydrates. We infer that the intestinal symbiont  can indirectly stimulate intestinal butyrate levels in the vicinity of the intestinal epithelial cells with potential health benefits to the host. The intestinal microbiota is said to be a stable ecosystem where many networks between microorganisms are formed. Here we present a proof of principle study of microbial interaction at the intestinal mucus layer. We show that indigestible oligosaccharide chains within mucus become available for a broad range of intestinal microbes after degradation and liberation of sugars by the species  This leads to the microbial synthesis of vitamin B, 1,2-propanediol, propionate, and butyrate, which are beneficial to the microbial ecosystem and host epithelial cells.

Deciphering interactions between the gut microbiota and the immune system via microbial cultivation and minimal microbiomes.The community of microorganisms in the mammalian gastrointestinal tract, referred to as the gut microbiota, influences host physiology and immunity. The last decade of microbiome research has provided significant advancements for the field and highlighted the importance of gut microbes to states of both health and disease. Novel molecular techniques have unraveled the tremendous diversity of intestinal symbionts that potentially influence the host, many proof-of-concept studies have demonstrated causative roles of gut microbial communities in various pathologies, and microbiome-based approaches are beginning to be implemented in the clinic for diagnostic purposes or for personalized treatments. However, several challenges for the field remain: purely descriptive reports outnumbering mechanistic studies and slow translation of experimental results obtained in animal models into the clinics. Moreover, there is a dearth of knowledge regarding how gut microbes, including novel species that have yet to be identified, impact host immune responses. The sheer complexity of the gut microbial ecosystem makes it difficult, in part, to fully understand the microbiota-host networks that regulate immunity. In the present manuscript, we review key findings on the interactions between gut microbiota members and the immune system. Because culturing microbes allows performing functional studies, we have emphasized the impact of specific taxa or communities thereof. We also highlight underlying molecular mechanisms and discuss opportunities to implement minimal microbiome-based strategies.

Inferring microbial interactions in thermophilic and mesophilic anaerobic digestion of hog waste.Anaerobic digestion (AnD) is a microbiological process that converts organic waste materials into biogas. Because of its high methane content, biogas is a combustible energy source and serves as an important environmental technology commonly used in the management of animal waste generated on large animal farms. Much work has been done on hardware design and process engineering for the generation of biogas. However, little is known about the complexity of the microbiology in this process. In particular, how microbes interact in the digester and eventually breakdown and convert organic matter into biogas is still regarded as a "black box." We used 16S rRNA sequencing as a tool to study the microbial community in laboratory hog waste digesters under tightly controlled conditions, and systematically unraveled the distinct interaction networks of two microbial communities from mesophilic (MAnD) and thermophilic anaerobic digestion (TAnD). Under thermophilic conditions, the well-known association between hydrogen-producing bacteria, e.g., Ruminococcaceae and Prevotellaceae, and hydrotrophic methanogens, Methanomicrobiaceae, was reverse engineered by their interactive topological niches. The inferred interaction network provides a sketch enabling the determination of microbial interactive relationships that conventional strategy of finding differential taxa was hard to achieve. This research is still in its infancy, but it can help to depict the dynamics of microbial ecosystems and to lay the groundwork for understanding how microorganisms cohabit in the anaerobic digester.

A Combination of Stable Isotope Probing, Illumina Sequencing, and Co-occurrence Network to Investigate Thermophilic Acetate- and Lactate-Utilizing Bacteria.Anaerobic digestion is a complicated microbiological process that involves a wide diversity of microorganisms. Acetate is one of the most important intermediates, and interactions between acetate-oxidizing bacteria and archaea could play an important role in the formation of methane in anoxic environments. Anaerobic digestion at thermophilic temperatures is known to increase methane production, but the effects on the microbial community are largely unknown. In the current study, stable isotope probing was used to characterize acetate- and lactate-oxidizing bacteria in thermophilic anaerobic digestion. In microcosms fed C-acetate, bacteria related to members of Clostridium, Hydrogenophaga, Fervidobacterium, Spirochaeta, Limnohabitans, and Rhodococcus demonstrated elevated abundances of C-DNA fractions, suggesting their activities in acetate oxidation. In the treatments fed C-lactate, Anaeromyxobacter, Desulfobulbus, Syntrophus, Cystobacterineae, and Azospira were found to be the potential thermophilic lactate utilizers. PICRUSt predicted that enzymes related to nitrate and nitrite reduction would be enriched in C-DNA fractions, suggesting that the acetate and lactate oxidation may be coupled with nitrate and/or nitrite reduction. Co-occurrence network analysis indicated bacterial taxa not enriched in C-DNA fractions that may also play a critical role in thermophilic anaerobic digestion.

Temperature regulates deterministic processes and the succession of microbial interactions in anaerobic digestion process.Temperature plays crucial roles in microbial interactions that affect the stability and performance of anaerobic digestion. In this study, the microbial interactions and their succession in the anaerobic digestion process were investigated at three levels, represented by (1) present and (2) active micro-organisms, and (3) gene expressions under a temperature gradient from 25 to 55 °C. Network topological features indicated a global variation in microbial interactions at different temperatures. The variations of microbial interactions in terms of network modularity and deterministic processes based on topological features, corresponded well with the variations of methane productions, but not with temperatures. A common successional pattern of microbial interactions was observed at different temperatures, which showed that both deterministic processes and network modularity increased over time during the digestion process. It was concluded that the increase in temperature-mediated network modularity and deterministic processes on shaping the microbial interactions improved the stability and efficiency of anaerobic digestion process.

Illuminating vital surface molecules of symbionts in health and disease.The immunomodulatory surface molecules of commensal and pathogenic bacteria are critical to microorganisms' survival and the host's response. Recent studies have highlighted the unique and important responses elicited by commensal-derived surface macromolecules. However, the technology available to track these molecules in host cells and tissues remains primitive. We report, here, an interdisciplinary approach that uses metabolic labelling combined with bioorthogonal click chemistry (that is, reactions performed in living organisms) to specifically tag up to three prominent surface immunomodulatory macromolecules-peptidoglycan, lipopolysaccharide and capsular polysaccharide-either simultaneously or individually in live anaerobic commensal bacteria. Importantly, the peptidoglycan labelling enables, for the first time, the specific labelling of live endogenous, anaerobic bacteria within the mammalian host. This approach has allowed us to image and track the path of labelled surface molecules from live, luminal bacteria into specific intestinal immune cells in the living murine host during health and disease. The chemical labelling of three specific macromolecules within a live organism offers the potential for in-depth visualization of host-pathogen interactions.

Ulva biomass as a co-substrate for stable anaerobic digestion of spent coffee grounds in continuous mode.Ulva biomass was evaluated as a co-substrate for anaerobic digestion of spent coffee grounds at varying organic loads (0.7-1.6g chemical oxygen demand (COD)/Ld) and substrate compositions. Co-digestion with Ulva (25%, COD basis) proved beneficial for SCG biomethanation in both terms of process performance and stability. The beneficial effect is much more pronounced at higher organic and hydraulic loads, with the highest COD removal and methane yield being 51.8% and 0.19L/g COD fed, respectively. The reactor microbial community structure changed dynamically during the experiment, and a dominance shift from hydrogenotrophic to aceticlastic methanogens occurred with increase in organic loading rate. Network analysis provides a comprehensive view of the microbial interactions involved in the system and confirms a direct positive correlation between Ulva input and methane productivity. A group of populations, including Methanobacterium- and Methanoculleus-related methanogens, was identified as a possible indicator for monitoring the biomethanation performance.

Towards an Integrative Understanding of Diet-Host-Gut Microbiome Interactions.Over the last 20 years, a sizeable body of research has linked the microbiome and host diet to a remarkable diversity of diseases. Yet, unifying principles of microbiome assembly or function, at levels required to rationally manipulate a specific individual's microbiome to their benefit, have not emerged. A key driver of both community composition and activity is the host diet, but diet-microbiome interactions cannot be characterized without consideration of host-diet interactions such as appetite and digestion. This becomes even more complex if health outcomes are to be explored, as microbes engage in multiple interactions and feedback pathways with the host. Here, we review these interactions and set forth the need to build conceptual models of the diet-microbiome-host axes that draw out the key principles governing this system's dynamics. We highlight how "units of response," characterizations of similarly behaving microbes, do not correlate consistently with microbial sequence relatedness, raising a challenge for relating high-throughput data sets to conceptual models. Furthermore, they are question-specific; responses to resource environment may be captured at higher taxonomic levels, but capturing microbial products that depend on networks of different interacting populations, such as short-chain fatty acid production through anaerobic fermentation, can require consideration of the entire community. We posit that integrative approaches to teasing apart diet-microbe-host interactions will help bridge between experimental data sets and conceptual models and will be of value in formulating predictive models.

The dynamic changes and interactional networks of prokaryotic community between co-digestion and mono-digestions of corn stalk and pig manure.Anaerobic co-digestion is considered to be an efficient way to improve the biogas production. The abundance, dynamic and interactional networks of prokaryotic community were investigated between co-digestion and mono-digestions of corn stalk and pig manure in mesophilic batch test. Co-digestion showed higher methane production, and contributed to suitable microenvironment as well as stable prokaryotic community structure. The highest methane production was achieved with the highest relative abundance of Methanosaeta. Prokaryotic community in mono-digestions might inhibited by FA or FVFA. The functional modules in co-digestion and mono-digestion of pig manure clustered together with bigger size and higher degree, and the connections of metabolic functions were better-organized, which means high-efficient utilization of substrate and prevention of the two digestion systems crash. The partial mantel tests showed the functional modules were significantly affected by environmental factors. These results further explained that why co-digestion was more efficient than mono-digestion owing to suitable microenvironment.

Long-term successional dynamics of microbial association networks in anaerobic digestion processes.It is of great interest to elucidate underlying mechanisms to maintain stability of anaerobic digestion, an important process in waste treatment. By operating triplicate anaerobic digesters continuously for two years, we found that microbial community composition shifted over time despite stable process performance. Using an association network analysis to evaluate microbial interactions, we detected a clear successional pattern, which exhibited increasing modularity but decreasing connectivity among microbial populations. Phylogenetic diversity was the most important factor associated with network topology, showing positive correlations with modularity but negative correlations with network complexity, suggesting induced niche differentiation over time. Positive, but not negative, correlation strength was significantly related (p < 0.05) to phylogeny. Furthermore, among populations exhibiting consistent positive correlations across networks, close phylogenetic linkages were evident (e.g. Clostridiales organisms). Clostridiales organisms were also identified as keystone populations in the networks (i.e., they had large effects on other species), suggestive of an important role in maintaining process stability. We conclude that microbial interaction dynamics of anaerobic digesters evolves over time during stable process performance.

Microbial network for waste activated sludge cascade utilization in an integrated system of microbial electrolysis and anaerobic fermentation.Bioelectrochemical systems have been considered a promising novel technology that shows an enhanced energy recovery, as well as generation of value-added products. A number of recent studies suggested that an enhancement of carbon conversion and biogas production can be achieved in an integrated system of microbial electrolysis cell (MEC) and anaerobic digestion (AD) for waste activated sludge (WAS). Microbial communities in integrated system would build a thorough energetic and metabolic interaction network regarding fermentation communities and electrode respiring communities. The characterization of integrated community structure and community shifts is not well understood, however, it starts to attract interest of scientists and engineers.
In the present work, energy recovery and WAS conversion are comprehensively affected by typical pretreated biosolid characteristics. We investigated the interaction of fermentation communities and electrode respiring communities in an integrated system of WAS fermentation and MEC for hydrogen recovery. A high energy recovery was achieved in the MECs feeding WAS fermentation liquid through alkaline pretreatment. Some anaerobes belonging to Firmicutes (Acetoanaerobium, Acetobacterium, and Fusibacter) showed synergistic relationship with exoelectrogens in the degradation of complex organic matter or recycling of MEC products (H2). High protein and polysaccharide but low fatty acid content led to the dominance of Proteiniclasticum and Parabacteroides, which showed a delayed contribution to the extracellular electron transport leading to a slow cascade utilization of WAS.
Efficient pretreatment could supply more short-chain fatty acids and higher conductivities in the fermentative liquid, which facilitated mass transfer in anodic biofilm. The overall performance of WAS cascade utilization was substantially related to the microbial community structures, which in turn depended on the initial pretreatment to enhance WAS fermentation. It is worth noting that species in AD and MEC communities are able to build complex networks of interaction, which have not been sufficiently studied so far. It is therefore important to understand how choosing operational parameters can influence reactor performances. The current study highlights the interaction of fermentative bacteria and exoelectrogens in the integrated system.

Temperature affects microbial abundance, activity and interactions in anaerobic digestion.Temperature is a major factor determining the performance of the anaerobic digestion process. The microbial abundance, activity and interactional networks were investigated under a temperature gradient from 25°C to 55°C through amplicon sequencing, using 16S ribosomal RNA and 16S rRNA gene-based approaches. Comparative analysis of past accumulative elements presented by 16S rRNA gene-based analysis, and the in-situ conditions presented by 16S rRNA-based analysis, provided new insights concerning the identification of microbial functional roles and interactions. The daily methane production and total biogas production increased with temperature up to 50°C, but decreased at 55°C. Increased methanogenesis and hydrolysis at 50°C were main factors causing higher methane production which was also closely related with more well-defined methanogenic and/or related modules with comprehensive interactions and increased functional orderliness referred to more microorganisms participating in interactions. This research demonstrated the importance of evaluating functional roles and interactions of microbial community.

The Roles of Inflammation, Nutrient Availability and the Commensal Microbiota in Enteric Pathogen Infection.The healthy human intestine is colonized by as many as 1014 bacteria belonging to more than 500 different species forming a microbial ecosystem of unsurpassed diversity, termed the microbiota. The microbiota's various bacterial members engage in a physiological network of cooperation and competition within several layers of complexity. Within the last 10 years, technological progress in the field of next-generation sequencing technologies has tremendously advanced our understanding of the wide variety of physiological and pathological processes that are influenced by the commensal microbiota (1, 2). An increasing number of human disease conditions, such as inflammatory bowel diseases (IBD), type 2 diabetes, obesity, allergies and colorectal cancer are linked with altered microbiota composition (3). Moreover, a clearer picture is emerging of the composition of the human microbiota in healthy individuals, its variability over time and between different persons and how the microbiota is shaped by environmental factors (i.e., diet) and the host's genetic background (4). A general feature of a normal, healthy gut microbiota can generate conditions in the gut that disfavor colonization of enteric pathogens. This is termed colonization-resistance (CR). Upon disturbance of the microbiota, CR can be transiently disrupted, and pathogens can gain the opportunity to grow to high levels. This disruption can be caused by exposure to antibiotics (5, 6), changes in diet (7, 8), application of probiotics and drugs (9), and a variety of diseases (3). Breakdown of CR can boost colonization by intrinsic pathogens or increase susceptibility to infections (10). One consequence of pathogen expansion is the triggering of inflammatory host responses and pathogen-mediated disease. Interestingly, human enteric pathogens are part of a small group of bacterial families that belong to the Proteobacteria: the Enterobacteriaceae (E. coli, Yersinia spp., Salmonella spp., Shigella spp.), the Vibrionaceae (Vibrio cholerae) and the Campylobacteriaceae (Campylobacter spp.). In general, members of these families (be it commensals or pathogens) only constitute a minority of the intestinal microbiota. However, proteobacterial "blooms" are a characteristic trait of an abnormal microbiota such as in the course of antibiotic therapy, dietary changes or inflammation (11). It has become clear that the gut microbiota not only plays a major role in priming and regulating mucosal and systemic immunity, but that the immune system also contributes to host control over microbiota composition. These two ways of mutual communication between the microbiota and the immune system were coined as "outside-in" and "inside-out," respectively (12). The significance of those interactions for human health is particularly evident in Crohn's disease (CD) and Ulcerative Colitis (UC). The symptoms of these recurrent, chronic types of gut inflammation are caused by an excessive immune response against one's own commensal microbiota (13). It is assumed that deregulated immune responses can be caused by a genetic predisposition, leading to, for example, the impairment of intestinal barrier function or disruption of mucosal T-cell homeostasis. In CD or UC patients, an abnormally composed microbiota, referred to as "dysbiosis," is commonly observed (discussed later). This is often characterized by an increased relative abundance of facultative anaerobic bacteria (e.g., Enterobacteriaeceae, Bacilli) and, at the same time, depletion of obligate anaerobic bacteria of the classes Bacteroidia and Clostridia. So far, it is unclear whether dysbiosis is a cause or a consequence of inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). In fact, both scenarios are equally conceivable. Recent work suggests that inflammatory immune responses in the gut (both IBD and pathogen-induced) can alter the gut luminal milieu in a way that favors dysbiosis (14). In this chapter, I present a survey on our current state of understanding of the characteristics and mechanisms underlying gut inflammation-associated dysbiosis. The role of dysbiosis in enteric infections and human IBD is discussed. In addition, I will focus on competition of enteric pathogens and the gut microbiota in the inflamed gut and the role of dysbiotic microbiota alterations (e.g., "Enterobacterial blooms" (11)) for the evolution of pathogenicity.

Special Issue on "Microbial Ecology of Anaerobic Digestion".Anaerobic digestion (AD) is an efficient and sustainable way of using organic carbon from residual biomass and organic waste for the production of renewable energy, while simultaneously recycling nutrients and cleaning up waste streams. The process relies on complex microbial communities comprised of diverse functional guilds; these communities have manifold metabolic pathways and interactions. In contrast to the conventional view of an anaerobic digester as a black box, advanced microbiological methods have paved the way for understanding and even controlling complex microbial networks. Nowadays, microbial resource management is crucial for technological progress in AD, and offers new perspectives concerning sustainable waste management, renewable energy production, resource efficiency, and advanced bio-refineries; these perspectives lead to novel applications of AD processes that go beyond biogas as the main product. [...].

Metaproteomics of cellulose methanisation under thermophilic conditions reveals a surprisingly high proteolytic activity.Cellulose is the most abundant biopolymer on Earth. Optimising energy recovery from this renewable but recalcitrant material is a key issue. The metaproteome expressed by thermophilic communities during cellulose anaerobic digestion was investigated in microcosms. By multiplying the analytical replicates (65 protein fractions analysed by MS/MS) and relying solely on public protein databases, more than 500 non-redundant protein functions were identified. The taxonomic community structure as inferred from the metaproteomic data set was in good overall agreement with 16S rRNA gene tag pyrosequencing and fluorescent in situ hybridisation analyses. Numerous functions related to cellulose and hemicellulose hydrolysis and fermentation catalysed by bacteria related to Caldicellulosiruptor spp. and Clostridium thermocellum were retrieved, indicating their key role in the cellulose-degradation process and also suggesting their complementary action. Despite the abundance of acetate as a major fermentation product, key methanogenesis enzymes from the acetoclastic pathway were not detected. In contrast, enzymes from the hydrogenotrophic pathway affiliated to Methanothermobacter were almost exclusively identified for methanogenesis, suggesting a syntrophic acetate oxidation process coupled to hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis. Isotopic analyses confirmed the high dominance of the hydrogenotrophic methanogenesis. Very surprising was the identification of an abundant proteolytic activity from Coprothermobacter proteolyticus strains, probably acting as scavenger and/or predator performing proteolysis and fermentation. Metaproteomics thus appeared as an efficient tool to unravel and characterise metabolic networks as well as ecological interactions during methanisation bioprocesses. More generally, metaproteomics provides direct functional insights at a limited cost, and its attractiveness should increase in the future as sequence databases are growing exponentially.

Modulation of Shigella virulence in response to available oxygen in vivo.Bacteria coordinate expression of virulence determinants in response to localized microenvironments in their hosts. Here we show that Shigella flexneri, which causes dysentery, encounters varying oxygen concentrations in the gastrointestinal tract, which govern activity of its type three secretion system (T3SS). The T3SS is essential for cell invasion and virulence. In anaerobic environments (for example, the gastrointestinal tract lumen), Shigella is primed for invasion and expresses extended T3SS needles while reducing Ipa (invasion plasmid antigen) effector secretion. This is mediated by FNR (fumarate and nitrate reduction), a regulator of anaerobic metabolism that represses transcription of spa32 and spa33, virulence genes that regulate secretion through the T3SS. We demonstrate there is a zone of relative oxygenation adjacent to the gastrointestinal tract mucosa, caused by diffusion from the capillary network at the tips of villi. This would reverse the anaerobic block of Ipa secretion, allowing T3SS activation at its precise site of action, enhancing invasion and virulence.

Impact of polymer-sludge interaction on rheogram peaks and optimum dose determination.Torque rheometry offers potential for in-line monitoring use, screening polymers, and on site optimization of polymer dose by treatment plant operators. This study investigates the peaks formed following direct polymer injection into sludge during rheological analysis. The peaks enable observation of both flocculation and deflocculation phases, and the highest point of the peaks indicates the point where network bonds rupture. The goal of this study was to test the method reported by Ormeci on anaerobically digested sludge samples with several polymers, covering a wide spectrum of molecular weights and cationic charges, to establish a better understanding of how polymer-sludge interaction affects torque-time rheograms and peaks observed after polymer injection. The results from this study indicate that peaks can potentially be used to select the best performing polymer and identify the optimum polymer dose. In the underdose region, the peaks increase in size with increasing polymer dose until the optimum dose is reached. Once the optimum dose is reached, the peaks may decrease in size and then increase again, or stay same size until the polymer dose is very high. In the overdose region, very large and erratic peaks are observed which can be explained by the presence of unmixed polymer in the sample.

Biogeochemistry of dihydrogen (H2).Hydrogen has had an important and evolving role in Earth's geo- and biogeochemistry, from prebiotic to modern times. On the earliest Earth, abiotic sources of H2 were likely stronger than in the present. Volcanic out-gassing and hydrothermal circulation probably occurred at several times the modern rate, due to presumably higher heat flux. The H2 component of volcanic emissions was likely buffered close to the modern value by an approximately constant mantle oxidation state since 3.9 billion years ago, and may have been higher before that, if the early mantle was more reducing. The predominantly ultramafic character of the early, undifferentiated crust could have led to increased serpentinization and release of H2 by hydrothermal circulation, as in modern ultramafic-hosted vents. At the same time, the reactive atmospheric sink for H2 was likely weaker. Collectively, these factors suggest that steady state levels of H2 in the prebiotic atmosphere were 3-4 orders of magnitude higher than at present, and possibly higher still during transient periods following the delivery of Fe and Ni by large impact events. These elevated levels had direct or indirect impacts on the redox state of the atmosphere, the radiation budget, the production of aerosol hazes, and the genesis of biochemical precursor compounds. The early abiotic cycling of H2 helped to establish the environmental and chemical context for the origins of life on Earth. The potential for H2 to serve as a source of energy and reducing power, and to afford a means of energy storage by the establishment of proton gradients, could have afforded it a highly utilitarian role in the earliest metabolic chemistry. Some origin of life theories suggest the involvement of H2 in the first energy-generating metabolism, and the widespread and deeply-branching nature of H2-utilization in the modern tree of life suggests that it was at least a very early biochemical innovation. The abiotic production of H2 via several mechanisms of water-rock interaction could have supported an early chemosynthetic biosphere. Such processes offer the continued potential for a deep, rock-hosted biosphere on Earth or other bodies in the solar system. The continued evolution of metabolic and community-level versatility among microbes led to an expanded ability to completely exploit the energy available in complex organic matter. Under the anoxic conditions that prevailed on the early Earth, this was accomplished through the linked and sequential action of several metabolic classes of organisms. By transporting electrons between cells, H2 provides a means of linking the activities of these organisms into a highly functional and interactive network. At the same time, H2 concentrations exert a powerful thermodynamic control on many aspects of metabolism and biogeochemical function in these systems. Anaerobic communities based on the consumption of organic matter continue to play an important role in global biogeochemistry even into the present day. As the principal arbiters of chemistry in most aquatic sediments and animal digestive systems, these microbes affect the redox and trace-gas chemistry of our oceans and atmosphere, and constitute the ultimate biological filter on material passing into the rock record. It is in such communities that the significance of H2 in mediating biogeochemical function is most strongly expressed. The advent of phototrophic metabolism added another layer of complexity to microbial communities, and to the role of H2 therein. Anoxygenic and oxygenic phototrophs retained and expanded on the utilization of H2 in metabolic processes. Both groups produce and consume H2 through a variety of mechanisms. In the natural world, phototrophic organisms are often closely juxtaposed with a variety of other metabolic types, through the formation of biofilms and microbial mats. In the few examples studied, phototrophs contribute an often swamping term to the H2 economy of these communities, with important implications for their overall function-including regulation of the redox state of gaseous products, and direct release of large quantities of H2 to the environment. As one of the dominant sources of biological productivity for as much as 2 billion years of Earth's history, these communities have been among the most important agents of long-term global biogeochemical change. On the modern Earth, H2 is present at only trace levels in the atmosphere and oceans. Nonetheless, its function as an arbiter of microbial interactions and chemistry ensures an important role in biogeochemical cycling. The significance of H2 in a global sense may soon increase, as the search for alternative fuels casts attention on the clean-energy potential of hydrogen fuel cells. Already, H2 utilization plays an important role in all three phylogenetic domains of life. Humans may soon add an important new term to this economy. Considerable research is focused on the H2-producing capacities of phototrophic and other microorganisms as potential contributors in this regard. Regardless of source, the large scale utilization of H2 as an energy source could carry important consequences for biogeochemistry.

